-
- A Simple Practice for a Simple Course
- We are going to speak about a very simple question that can guide us throughout our day and actually the rest of our lives. Over and over again, Jesus tells us in A Course in Miracles how very simple his course is. This idea recurs all throughout the three books of the Course. And we could consolidate all the Course’s teachings and all of its guidance for our everyday practice of the Course, such as we find in the workbook, in this very simple question to ask every single time we are confronted by anything in our day, from something that occurs within our own body that we react to. But this simple question, simply asked, would guide us through the entire morass of the ego thought system, all that goes along with our everyday living in this world. All of this can be cut through very, very simply by posing this very simple question every single moment of every single day, and the question is: **Is what I am doing, is what I am feeling, thinking, saying, will this impede my Atonement path or will it enhance it? Will this solidify my being in the ego’s dream or will this help me awaken from the ego’s dream?**
- This simple question, simply posed but religiously done so, with great dedication and devotion day-in and day-out, cannot help but bring us closer and closer to our goal because this will cut through everything that the world tells us is true, valuable, important, and significant. Because the only thing that is true within this world of illu- sion that is important, significant, and valuable is: Will this help me awaken from my dream or will this hinder my progress? To do this over and over again each and every day would help unify our life so that no matter what is going on, whether it is something we judge as being significant or insignificant, something that arouses great passion, anger or fear, that gives us pleasure or pain, no matter what the form is, no matter what seems to be going on outside of us in our world, it brings us all back within to the decision-making mind. And the only question is: Will what I am doing, what I am thinking, what I am feeling, what I am saying, help me on my path or hinder me? What could be simpler?
- And so as Jesus says over and over again, this is a very simple course. As he tells us at the beginning of Chapter 31, what is true is true, what is false is false, what could be easier? So everything comes down to this very simple question. The problem is that its simplicity is what terrifies us because we want to make things very complicated. Indeed that is why we made the world right at the beginning, and that is why we made bodies and made lots of bodies, because nothing is more complicated in terms of how it functions. And nothing is more complicated in terms of our daily living than interacting with other bodies. It is extraordinarily complicated. As Lessons 79 and 80 say, “Let me recognize the problem so it can be solved” and “Let me recognize my problems have been solved.” There is only one problem, [[the belief in separation]] , and only one solution, that is the decision for the Atonement. But so many problems keep rising up and rising up, and rising up, and we are enveloped in these clouds of complexity that conceal from us how very simple everything is. Is what I am doing an interference to my Atonement path and my awakening from the dream or will it help me progress on my Atonement path?
- There is absolutely no reason why day-in and day-out we cannot practice that very simple question. And if we do not practice it and we forget and get caught in the flotsam and jetsam of our everyday life and all the complexities of the ego thought system, it is only because we became afraid, not only of the simplicity of the question but the simplicity of the answer. Do I truly want to awaken from the dream and return home? It is only we who could provide the answer to that. And looking at everything that happens in our day provides the framework within which we can learn and practice this lesson, ask this question, and then one day give the answer and truly mean it: Yes, I do want the peace of God. I do want to return home. I do want to awaken from the dream.