alias::
tags::
project:: #EFA
- Enough For All (EFA) is an exploration into (in)sufficiency, its roots and possible remedies.
- It operates around the central question, “Is there enough for all?” Further questions arise from the response(s) to this in each level, domain, issue, aspect.
- EFA attempts to make the grand issue of scarcity, poverty and prosperity more intellectually digestible by cohering disparate data, siloed expertise and competing analyses into an overarching, sensible narrative. In doing so, it hopes to make the troubling universal phenomenon of poverty more emotionally manageable and pragmatically hopeful.
- EFA seeks to achieve this primarily by drawing on existing data and analyses from high-quality, authoritative sources. It then presents these predominantly using visual language tools: data visualizations, infographics, argument maps, debate graphs, and more, as well as modern hypertextual web tools. It will also use these web tools to present questionings and critiques of these data sources as and when warranted.
- Data and analyses are explored by the navigator as a branching reading route representing forking thought pathways. At each step multiple next-steps are probably available which may take the form of a logical consequence, an alternative conclusion, a questioning or reframing of this data, or a drill-down to a greater degree of granularity, as some examples.
- EFA begins from common, basic needs (eg. food, clothing, shelter) and working through the levels of materiality to the intangible, loftier levels of aspiration. It employs a logic pathway approach, asking "If the data shows there is enough of A at level B, place C and time D, why is there no experience of it there? What is happening upstream-downstream, inside-outside, higher-lower, before-after etc ?". It starts at first principles and raw data in order to explore logical foundations, premises and assumptions, as well as multiple pathways of conclusions and consequences.
- EFA will consider orthodox approaches and conventional thinking as well as some of their alternatives and critiques.
- To achieve these lofty ambitions, EFA will rely on a vibrant community of active contribution, healthy conversation and critical curation, attempting to embody the principles espoused in the exploration of the central, underlying question: How can I/we have, do, and be enough?