-
- EFA uniqueness:
  collapsed:: true
	- EFA places data in a story
	- EFA links data objects/entities/topics
	- EFA offers Fresh Alternatives
	- EFA has spiritual and metaphysical underpinnings
	- EFA has layered model of reality
- Uniqueness & Novelty - Overview
  collapsed:: true
	- “Market opportunity.” No one single forum (to the best of my knowledge) unites and integrates discussion around sufficiency, at all levels, in all dimensions, in a convenient, digestible manner. There is no
- Uniqueness – What EFA is not
  collapsed:: true
	- Uniqueness – What EFA is not Some readers may not have picked up this book due to misconceptions. Others may have made it this far despite their misconceptions. Let’s clear up what this book is not, at the very start. Much has been written in recent new-age literature about “manifesting abundance” and “creating your own reality.” EFA is not this. EFA is not “Think and Grow Rich” or “The Secret” rehashed or repackaged. It is not meant to be another new-age self-help “manifesting abundance” doctrine. I don’t think 7+ billion people can all drive a Ferrari in a peaceful world. However, it is asserted here that 7+ billion people can all experience all the benefits of what a Ferrari aims to achieve but ultimately falls short in delivering: mobility, comfort, inner contentment.  Most attempts at alleviating poverty have been highly technical in their theoretical framework and language. These frameworks and models have been inaccessible to most people which seems odd when everyone is poor in some way. EFA is not meant to be an academic, theoretical treatise targeted for an elite “expert” audience. It is intended to be an easy-to-follow, systematic, logical progression of data and ideas accessible to most audiences (I hope!). Indeed, over-intellectualisation may be a factor in poverty creation or reinforcement, or possibly another expression of it.  EFA is not a megaphone for any existing economic, political or technological “solutions” or religious reckonings. It does not intend to further fuel ideological conflicts but assist in healing these divisions. Saying this though, many people will not agree with what is said. There is a central thesis and alternative practices and systems will be presented. However, they are proposed as alternative options to be applied contextually and are not holy econo-political scripture. They are proposed for your consideration.  EFA is not an attempt to appease my guilt by telling “the poor and afflicted” what “they” should do. I, Adam, do have my own experience of poverty, scarcity and lack, and therefore am in no position to lecture. I am a student-patient here. I, Adam, also play a role in the poverty experience of others, I’m sure. Rather, EFA will try to explore the factors in creating scarcity. I shall offer some insights, of my own and of others, in treating the problem at its cause, while practicing what I preach to undo my own sense of poverty in my individual life as in my world.  Finally, EFA is not intended to be a commandment, written in stone by a priveliged prophet with special access to the ‘truth’. It is intended as a guide through, and hopefully out of, dark and despairing terrain. As with any guide or map, its value is increased through the contributions of fellow travellers and explorers. Please help. Please provide the inspired thoughts, the penetrating data and the wise alternatives that haven’t made it to this edition of the text. Enough needs you.
- Originality through integration
  collapsed:: true
	- Contributions, in an isolated sense, are generally not original. The originality here comes from their integration, sense-making and
- What EFA is not
  collapsed:: true
	- What EFA is not EFA is not meant to be another ideology.  Its not intended to be a politico-economic system that is a panacaea for the world’s problems eg communism, capitalist democracy or any other ideology. It is designed to point out that we are all looking for God It may point out the weakness, ineffectivenss and perhaps downfall of systems because of a lack of God-component, inner development. Based, on this, in part 2, it reverses the design process of world systems and resource management The point is to point out the inner seeking everyone undertakes, but undertakes in an external fashion. Thus, disappointment results.  EFA does not prescribe but offers suggestions, possible alternatives, all the while keeping options open and inviting further suggestions.   “Enough” = generating more/acquiring more + requiring less/relying on less  Some things we can create more of. Other things are finite. Eg. Land, water  Trying to look for abundnce in finite resources is misguided madness. The finite is, by definition, limited and scarce. Material resources are finite. Therefore, abundance is only really found in the Infinite. Question: “What is Infinite?” Answer: Ideas are Infinite. Mind is Infinte. God is the Infinite Idea.  We misuse resources and create insufficiency by misidentifying/misdirecting our source of power and abundance. “Looking for love in all the wrong places” We’re trying to satisfy the Infinite through the finite.  Note on minimum requirements and standards for living I cannot set the minimums. I can merely show what is possible, currently available, previously available etc.  Is there actually enough for all? I am starting to wonder... What if waswte is not of a quantity sufficient enough to cover the lack? Then we have to redirect resources, use resources more efficiently and alter lifestyles.  The premise/thesis of EFA is that excess and inefficient and inappropriate resource usage is a result of looking in the wrong place (ie. To that particular resource) for salvation, satisfaction, fulfillment.  Maslow’s assertion: “Self-actualization” happens only after fulfillment of other tiers. It represents the path generally taken by humans. But is it really back to front?  EFA may not provide solutions directly, but it does identify the problem. By not providing too many solutions, it opens up for suggestions  While there is a belief in lack and scarcity, there will be power struggles to control the seeming source of life.  Current economic systems don’t address (or even acknowledge): The idea there is a belief in lack The location of the lack The way to remedy the lack (it simply moves the lack around in time and place)  In fact, current economic systems rely on lack for their operation. It is a building block.  All poverty is power poverty: physical power, authority, metaphysical  Solutions sections Discuss macro-solution principles (a lead-in to universal principles, macroenergetics) State summarily the problem resolution approach ie. Reverse of part 1 Form v Content Integral CLA Prout Currency Exchange Tax (a specific example) Discuss some specific attempts   Confusion of Problem with Symptoms Currently problems are seen to be Overpopulation Biodiversity loss, ecological degradation Climate change etc However, these are actually symptoms. They are symptoms of separation.  Warning to Adam. I must make it clear that this is not a case of pray to God to make it rain, make my child better, make my side win... as is so often done.  Q: How does “going to God”, “seeking God first”, “listening to God”... manifest in planning, strategy, organizing, designing, individual life etc. A: Listening to others Inspiration, inspired creativity Not re-inforcing the prob or creating a new one Encouragement (&ability) of debate without attachment Fearlessness Expanded idea of oneself No over-consumption – obesity, material goods, drugs, addiction
- What is it not?
  collapsed:: true
	- EFA is not “The Secret” rehashed or repackaged. It is not meant to be another new-age self-help “manifesting abundance” or “creative visualisation” doctrine. 6+ billion people can’t all drive a Ferrari. However, it is asserted that 6+ billion people can all experience all the benefits of what a Ferrari aims to achieve but ultimately falls short in.  EFA is not meant to be an academic, theoretical treatise targeted for an “expert” audience. It is intended to be an easy-to-follow, systematic, logical progression of data and ideas accessible to most audiences (I hope!). Indeed, over-intellectualisation may be a factor in poverty creation or another expression of it.  EFA is not a megaphone for any existing economic, political or technological “solutions” or religious reckonings. It does not intend to further fuel ideological conflicts but to heal them somewhat. There is a central thesis [link] and alternative practices and systems will be presented. However, they are proposed as alternative options to be applied contextually not holy econo-political scripture.  EFA is not an attempt to appease my guilt by telling “the poor” what they should do. I, Adam, do have my own experience of poverty, scarcity and lack, and therefore am in no position to lecture. I am a student-patient here. Rather, EFA will explore the role of guilt in creating scarcity. I shall offer some insights, of my own and of others, in treating the problem at its cause, while practicing what I preach to undo my own sense of poverty.
- Points of difference
- Points of differentiation
- points of similarity