alias:: AMT, OMG
tags:: #toProcess #toEdit #toWrite, [[My Books]] , [[myCreation]]
see-also:: #[[AMT tasks]]

- Internal
  collapsed:: true
	- Notes to Self:
	  collapsed:: true
		- AMT is my origin doc. From this everything else emerges.
		  Basic principles are outlined and laid down.
		  Expanded upon in other projects and books.
		- AMT as an introduction to all my other writings in the future, which will expand on ideas begun here
		  collapsed:: true
			- Obvious connections
				- EFA
					- scarcity manufactured by wrong-mind
				- Metamechanica
					- particularly morals as mechanics
					- a scared society's fearless future
				- Non-dual futuring
					- Time as separation mechanism
					- Future as projection of fear & punishment
					- Futures as defence mechanism, avoidance
				- Inner Beginner
					- pathways of rigour
					- deal with the shadow, the repressed, the denied
				- Adam's Atlas
					- connection:
						- Aliens as gods
						- Garden of Eden
						- Bible, Upanishads/Vedas et al as historical docs, in part
				- X-Science and its books
					- religion as tech; science as spiritual practice
					- unconscious science; self-deception, nastiness, placebo
					- macroscience & metatechnology
				- Babies, Bibles & Bathwater
				- FACTs 4CT
					- the Universe as a variety of logical fallacies
					- The Ultimate Conspiracy
					- [[Truth is stranger than fiction]] ; they both come from the same mind
				- Behind, Below, Beyond
			- Less obvious connections
				- FF-ed
				- Global Effort
		- In writing AMT I should try to embody AMT as much as possible; live the ideas. Don't believe the lie.
	- Possible titles and bylines
	  collapsed:: true
		- Oh my God!
		  Oh my! God?
		  O, my God…
		- Myth, misconceptions, metaphor, mind & miracles: An introductory manuscript on the path to peace.
		- Mind, miracles, multiverses, metaphor, myth & misconceptions: An alternative manuscript for a path to peace.
	- [[AMT half-page for family and friends]]
	- [[AMT 1-page project brief]]
	- [[AMT 5-page project brief]]
	- notes on Structure
	  collapsed:: true
		- Structure as a contrast against scientific materialist, religious creationist, new-age quantum mystic, atheists, and activists, conspiracy theorists (eg. David Icke, Alex Jones, )
			- Reinforce what the good of each school is eg. the good of science is reliance on evidence: seek for yourself;
			- remind of the not-so-good: eg. that reality is just material, only the five senses or God is energy (new-age);
			- steps towards salvation eg. consciousness is more than we think, but also less ie. not God.
		- Book not meant to be linear yet a passage or section may not be well understood on its own
		- Common messages are present throughout the entire book
		- Concepts & ideas in one part support others elsewhere in the book
		- Same or similar ideas are expressed in more than way to encourage understanding.
		- Same/similar content is listed and accessed through multiple lenses. It appears in multiple locations. (This is one of the powers of Logseq and modular, transclusive writing)
			- eg.
		- The subway map system of thinking about God.
		- A flowchart with Yes-No question triggers, resulting in various pathways to "God"/god. Can colour code, like a subway system map. Follows a Yes-No type Q&A diagram down to a conclusion. Each pathway is a colour-coded route.
			- Eg. Good and evil. See notebook for examples 210412?? with each issue ending in something like “It does not really matter. The goal is to FORCK You!” – quote from ACIM: “A universal theology is impossible but a universal experience is necessary.”
		- quotes from different spiritual sources saying the same thing
			- include literature: Shakespeare, Goethe, Dante, Blake, Rumi
		- bite-size entries of a few paragraphs; these interlink to build bigger network
		- don't try to get exhaustive in listings, explanation, refutations etc
			- instead focus on over-arching and underlying principles
			- explanations and arguments can be elaborated upon in future works, perhaps using DiaGnosis
		- In a way an explanation of many principles of MetaMechanica
		- Inspired by ACIM but not ACIM
		- Tackle same/similar/recurring points from different starting thoughts. Eg. in “Foundational Concepts” start with the concept and then comment on misconceptions. In “Misconceptions” start with misconception, comment and then return to foundational concept.
		- with each issue ending in something like “It does not really matter. The goal is to FORCK You!” – quote from ACIM: “A universal theology is impossible but a universal experience is necessary.”
		- Summary sections of material throughout the book, OR, each section in a logical progresstion
	- Broad/general schools of thought to aid structure
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[PR Sarkar]]
		- Contemporary
			- [[Richard Dawkins]]
				- ["It's Sheer Bullsh*t” - Richard Dawkins on Jordan Peterson's Theology - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_eWDiaDOX0E)
			- [[Ken Wilber]]
			- [[Ken Wapnick]]
			- [[HHDL]]
			- [[Leonard Susskind]]
			- [[Michael Shermer]]
			- [[Daniel Dennett]]
			- [[Christopher Hitchens]]
			- [[Deepak Chopra]]
			- [[Huston Smith]]
			- [[William James]]
			- [[Dennis Praeger]]
			- [[Ben Shapiro]]
			- [[Jordan Peterson]]
			- [[Sam Harris]]
			- [[William Lane Craig]]
			- [[John Lennox]]
			- [[Jiddhu Krishnamurti]]
			- [[Stephen C Meyer]]
		- Materialists
		- Creationists
		- Quantum mystic
		- Conspiracy theorist
		- Atheists
		- Agnostics
		- Socialists, Marxists, Communists, Maoists, Leninists
		- Capitalists
		- Eco
		- [[C.S. Lewis]]
		- People to use as guiding baseline for categories
			- [[Richard Dawkins]]
			- [[Deepak Chopra]]
			- [[Michael Shermer]]
			- [[Ken Wilber]]
			- [[Albert Einstein]]
			- [[Ervin Laszlo]]
		- Monism
			- neutral monism
		-
-
- Overview and Outline.
  collapsed:: true
  Guide to the reader. How to handle this book.
	- Central Message
	- GOA (Goals/Objectives/Aims)
	  collapsed:: true
		- The goal is to FORCK You!” – quote from ACIM: “A universal theology is impossible but a universal experience is necessary.”
		- To present a spiritual alternative to orthodox and mainstream views of spirituality and religion and science
			- Easy to read
			- Cognitively cogent and coherent
			- Opens up new ideas
			- Symphonic in structure, building on clear foundations
		- To encapsulate my views into a book so my family and friends can grasp what I am talking about and thinking about.
		- For the book to be a launching pad for further books
		  ⁃	Certain ideas within the book might be expounded upon in further detail in later tomes
		- To present some ideas which may not be new but are certainly radical, and helpful
		  ⁃	God exists…but did not create the world
		  ⁃	Truth-tools are confused for Truth
		- Some metaphysics which makes sense
		- To present some ideas which may not be new but are certainly radical, and helpful
		- To encapsulate my views into a book so my family and friends can grasp what I am talking about and thinking about.
		- For the book to be a launching pad for further books
	- Audience
	- Possible partners & contributors
	- Why AMT?
	  collapsed:: true
	  Motivation for this Book
		- Personal
			- Articulate a metaphysics and psychology for my life, world, experience and journey
			- Articulation in order to improve application. Application to improve understanding. Understanding to improve articulation. And so on.
			- Apply to my life, relationships, thoughts and experiences.
			- Always been interested in Theories of Everything
			-
		- Public, professional, philosophical
			- Contribute some ideas to the discourse and explore their implications in interesting fields, contested questions and debated domains.
	- Another M-Theory is a simple introductory text on applied metaphysics, offering a model of God-Universe-Space-Time Organization (GUSTO) that may assist efforts for peace and prosperity in a world of suffering and separation.
	- The ideas in this book may not be new to you. Their aggregation, however, as well as understanding of their philosophical and practical consequences, may be new, provocative and challenging.
- [[Rescuing God]]
  collapsed:: true
	- {{embed [[Rescuing God]]}}
- ## A Starting Point
  collapsed:: true
	-
	- No one can read everything.
	- This work won't evolve as perhaps the usual non-fiction writing might.
		- Do a literature survey of all relevant works. Exhaustive reading list.
		-
	- Also not written, in a structural or material sense, in the same way
		- Block writing; bullet writing; TL-DR writing
		- web writing
		- iterations, versions, drafts
		- easier additions and modifications than paper or even PDF
		- as such, suggested omissions and mistakes can be included and addressed in a subsequent version, based on feedback from readers & critics.
			- these suggestions can be included/addressed at the appropriate level of granularity in the hyperbook and accessed through various/multiple entry points, unlike a book/PDF. They need not occupy higher orders of importance/visibility than they require. They can be situated closer to their source/trigger point.
	- #toWrite
	- Start with premises and assertions rather than (seeming) empirical evidence, or what-if, or
		- First assertion is that empirical evidence still rests on an underlying assertion of no objective universe but with the forgotten segment of pre-conscious phenomenon production; I see the world/evidence I want, because I made the world/evidence I want, as well as the mechanism to 'see' it.
	- From these metaphysical axioms, postulates and principles are derived.
		- #QTS : What are mathematical axioms?
		-
- ## M-theory and Maps of the Illusion
  collapsed:: true
  Some Theories of Everything, in general
	- What is "M-theory"?
		- History
		- Who?
		- When?
		- Has it been discredited? Transformed?
	- Maps of the Illusion
	  collapsed:: true
		- M-Theories
		- [[Edward Witten]]
		- Wilber
		- PR Sarkar
		- Buckminster Fuller ?
		- Walter Russell
		- Dewey Larson
		- Thomas Campbell
		- Chris Langan
		- Freud & Jung
		- [[Stephen Hawking]]
		- see Claude.ai conversation: ((679d6c63-f13f-4d09-adce-187a3894b830))
	- General comments on Theories of Everything
	  collapsed:: true
		- see work of [[Donald Hoffman]] and his book [[The case against reality - Why evolution hid the truth from our eyes]]
		- [[a universal theology is impossible, but a universal experience is necessary]]
		-
- ### Metaphysics: propositions, postulates, premises and principles;
  collapsed:: true
	- The one real problem – a sense of separation from Source.
	- Projection vs Extension
	- Creation & Miscreation
	- God
		- Define "define"
			- Undefining God
			- Universal characteristics of God
		- [[God, "God", god and gods]]
		  collapsed:: true
			- Attributes of God; defining "God", "god", "gods"
				- Strawman arguments
					- defining God in a weak way, or subscribing to a weak definition, in opposition, is a cop out.
				- [[Aristotle]]
				- [[St Augustine]]
				- [[Thomas Aquinas]]
				- [[St Anselm]]
				- Need to contrast these with Eastern traditions, indigenous, other faiths
				- Commonly ascribed characteristics of God
					- Creator (of the world/universe)
					- Judge
		- ‘Spiritual’, ‘spiritual’, ’Self’, ‘self’ and ‘sacred’
		  collapsed:: true
			- Spirit is whole and complete, perfect and lacking nothing, ever changeless, ever loving.
			- ‘Spiritual’ pertains to Spirit.
			- ’spiritual’ reflects one’s idea of one’s self. Everyone is spiritual. Everything is spiritual, because it reflects one’s ideas of oneself.
		- God’s creations are limitless and pure, perfect love. God created Heaven. The ego created the universe of form, time & space.
		- God is completely benign.
			- Total benignity is a very difficult concept to appreciate.
			- God created You. And God only creates perfectly. God created You perfect, pure, sinless and totally worthy of love. He knows You better than You do. He knows you to be perfect. Therefore, there is nothing really in You that requires forgiveness of God.
		- Everyone believes in God. But not everyone believes in their definition of “God”.
		- [[Everything except God is metaphor]]
	- The world. The Universe.
	  collapsed:: true
		- The world/universe was created as an escape from guilt, fear & punishment.
		- The world is made as a defence and distraction
		- The universe is a closed-loop system. The universe of form/separation/space-time is designed to reinforce itself as true and real.
		- Levels
		- Layers (of the egonion)
		- The universe is the ego’s attempt to imitate/replicate Heaven.
		- Worldly problems are the ego’s distraction tactic from the one real problem – a sense of separation from Source. This idea is the very ego itself, so worldly problems are the ego’s survival mechanism.
		- God did not create the Universe.
		  collapsed:: true
			- There is an intelligence which designed and created the Universe, but it is not God.
			- No really intelligent designer would make this world. This unIntelligent Designer, however, while being the creator of pattern and fallibility and weakness is the same generator of randomness and pattern being broken. "Seek and do not find." - the metapattern
		- [[Everything except God is metaphor]]
		- The world of form – the universe of time & space – is like a holographic dream.
		  collapsed:: true
			- An image
			- An illusion
			- A dream
			- An optical delusion
			- A hologram
			- A projection
		- Yet it is the nature of the ego to separate and fragment. Thus the world of multiplicity.
		- The world is a place to hide.
		- The world is designed not to work.
		-
	- The body and bodies in general
	  collapsed:: true
		- God is dead...
		  collapsed:: true
			- and you killed Him
			- Nietzsche
		- sacrifice; cannibalization
		- I exist, and its your fault
		- Brain and heart as "signal receivers" or "signal detectors" rather than "signal generators"
			-
		- Bodies are the home/palace of the ego. The ego seeks to make idols out of bodies.
		- The body, and its senses, are designed to attest to the reality of the universe of form and separation.
			- ##### W-pI.64.1
			  Today’s idea is merely another way of saying “Let me not wander into temptation.” ²The purpose of the world you see is to obscure your function of forgiveness, and provide you with a justification for forgetting it. ³It is the temptation to abandon God and His Son by taking on a physical appearance. ⁴It is this the body’s eyes look upon.
	- The mind, and Mind.
	  collapsed:: true
		- resistance
		- the purpose of memory
		- unconscious, and its role
			- the locus of the lie
		- ideas leave not their source
		- Paradox
		- Consciousness as shiny toy, as idol
		- Consciousness is not of God.
			- it has levels, aspects, degrees.... variation
		- There is no such thing as faithlessness.
			- Atheists don't believe in a certain definition of "God". Everyone believes in God. There is no such thing as atheism.
		- No Theory of Everything, since it is designed on malfunction, separation, fragmentation
		- Repeated Sleight of hand, combined with amnesia.
		- The world is designed to look like it works, like its a nice place at times... Then the rug is pulled out, the facade is ripped off.
		- The world is designed as a distraction from looking at the source of the problem. Daily life, with its problems and dramas, is designed to distract from the underlying, real problem.
		- Beliefs don’t make Reality or Truth but they do make the appearance of it, and the experience of it.
		- All thinking is circular. At our deepest level, we are always proving our premise. However, some part of the circle may have been ‘conveniently’ forgotten to absolve ourselves of responsibility.
		- Level of mind vs level of behaviour/world
		- [[Sin, guilt, fear & punishment]]
			- Anger, doubt, jealousy, confusion, hatred, cynicism, boredom, apathy…are all masks of fear. Fear arises from a sense of guilt because a sense of guilt calls for punishment. Therefore surface fears are the tip of the iceberg of the deeper fear of punishment from God.
		- The tiny, mad idea vs the belief in the tiny, mad idea
		- the body-mind and the right-mind
		- [[The Unholy Trinity - Sin, Guilt and Fear]]
	- The ego. The devil.
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[self-referencing]]
			- The ego is something like [[Maurits Cornell Escher]]'s drawings:
				- it is a labyrinth of itself, not wanting you to escape
				- it is its own Creator ? or wants to portray itself that way, as God
					- the hand that draws itself; that creates God in its own image
				- the staircase drawing of Escher
					- you keep going up and down stairs, not realizing you're going around in circles
				- The ego only sees itself
					- Was this Freud's problem? He saw no way out of this predicament?
					- "A bad thing does not exist"
					- "It obliterates the question." The sense that there is something beyond it. The question "what am I/are we running away from?"
				- It is the right-mind (or is it?) that sees a way-out, or sees that there is an alternative, that "beyond this there is a world I want"
		- one or the other; kill or be killed
		- The ego created the universe of form, time & space.
		- The ego wants to be God
		- The ego wants to be God.
		- All powerful. Makes a universe.
		- The Intelligent (Evil) Designer
		- The ego is perfectly logical.
			- But all logic is built on the premise, the foundational idea.
		- One ego appearing as many
	- Form vs Content
		- The form is changed to preserve the content, rather than change the content to preserve the form.
	- the double shield of oblivion
	- Purpose is everything; What is it for?
	- more
	-
- ### Misconceptions & corrections
  collapsed:: true
	- Truth vs Truth-tool
		- Truth-tools are confused for Truth
	- Reincarnation is also an illusion. As are souls.
	- the question of evil; evil & God
	- Misconception template
	  collapsed:: true
		- Misconception
		- Correction
		- Comment on misconception
		- Comment on correction
	- Spirituality is about a change of mind, not changing the world.
	- God did not create religion.
	- Synchronicity, may or may not be, of God
	- Interconnectedness (is not oneness)
	- Sickness is not chosen at a conscious individual level. Anyone’s sickness is everyone’s call to healing themselves.
	- Misconception template
	  collapsed:: true
		- Miss-conception:
		- Correction:
		- Comment on misconception
		- Comment on correction
	- God created bodies
	- God created the world and the universe.
		- God did not create the world.
		- God did not create space or time.
		- God did not create the Universe, or the multiverse or anything of form
	- Jesus is the Son of God.
	- The Word of God
		- God's Word is the Bible.
		- God’s Word is the Bible / Koran / Torah /
		- God speaks Arabic, Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Sanskrit...
	- Interconnectedness (is not oneness). Synchronicity can be of the ego or the Holy Spirit, as can any 'signal'. It can be inspired, or not.
	- God is mysterious, unknowable.
	- God sends us lessons
	- God is judgmental.
		- God is judgmental. Judgment Day.
		- The last judgment
	- Consciousness is of God
	- God forgives.
	  collapsed:: true
		- God doesn't forgive because God never condemned.
		- But the image or symbol of God forgiving is a very helpful tool
	- Jesus didn’t know about his imminent crucifixion
	- God wants us to be rich. God wants us to be poor.
	- God wants to test you.
	- God & Jesus wants you to suffer for him.
	- Renouncing the world means asceticism.
	- Non-violence refers to physical actions. (It actually refers to the mind.)
		- thus much of what is considered peaceful protest is actually very violent
	- God vs Occult
	- Sacred places. Sacred geometry. Sacred texts.
	- On “prayer”. Ie. Prayer is not petitionary. We are always praying.
	- Vegetarianism & Food in spirituality.
	- Pilgrimage.
	- Ritual.
	- Science & Religion. Science vs Religion.
	- God & social justice
	- God & politics, law, economy
	- Jesus & the money lenders. "Do not lend at interest" is metaphor
	- Resurrection vs the Crucifixion
	- Jesus suffered pain on the cross.
	- Body, Mind & Spirit (this is a confusion of levels)
	  collapsed:: true
		- consequences of:
	- Buddha died from contaminated pork
	- Jesus was betrayed by Judas
	- Prayer is petitionary
	- God = The Church
	- Temptation. It is not temptation to fall into wild and wicked ways. It is temptation to consider oneself a victim; temptation to judge; temptation to hold grievances.
	- Heaven is not attained by death. Heaven must be attained by Life.
	- God loves complexity. In fact, he does not. God is simple for God is One, without levels, aspects, components and change.
	- The path to God is simple. But not easy. That’s not because of God. That’s because I/we/the ego have made it so.
	- Death is bad. Death is pain.
		- (Dying is painful. Physical death is temporary release from pain, the body. Death only temporarily cures pain. Freedom from pain)
		- Reports from the other side
	- God is on “our” side.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Yes, God is on your team but not “against the other team”. God is on “all sides”. God doesn’t share the same goal you think you do. God would have you be without opponents, adversaries, enemies or others, not by eliminating "them" but by helping you see there is no "them", only You/Her as One.
	- Parapsychic powers don’t necessarily indicate spiritual advancement.
	- The ego is bad.
	- Sin is bad, requiring punishment.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Correction: Sin is merely mistake, calling for forgiveness and re-direction. ‘Sin’ is a mistranslation from the Greek ‘X’? which more accurately means ‘to miss the mark’. It is simply an error in direction, a mistake in judgment. In fact, the mistake IS judgment. Just like any archer firing an arrow, a footballer kicking a goal, a singer hitting a key, ‘hitting the mark’ requires practice. Relentless practice, if the level of proficiency is to be high. To hit the mark of peace, love and joy requires continual, patient practice of the untrained mind. Mistakes are inevitable. This is the process of forgiveness – forgiving our erroneous misthoughts until we no longer miss the mark.
	- God is not a He. God is not a She..
	  collapsed:: true
		- Correction: but there is value to calling It an It, and It a ‘He’. Forgiveness opportunity. And because we think we are human, we relate better to an anthropomorphization, a personality. Our current concept of love is body-based so it may be helpful to think of It as Him/Her. However, to insist that It is a Him/Her is to make a mistake. To insist that God be a She, for example, in response to millennia of patriarchal repression, is to make the same mistake as calling It a He.
		- God is not even an ‘It’. When we say ‘It’ we are talking as if ‘It’ is separate from us. Yet God
	- God has nothing to do with evolution
	- Morals are handed down by God or result from the genetic survival imperative.
	  collapsed:: true
		- (They are expressions of metaphysical law. Ie. God won’t punish you for breaking the ten commandments or disavowing Jesus. Suffering is a self-imposed consequence of not understanding metaphysical mechanisms)
	- God did not create religion.
	- God deals out Karma.
	  collapsed:: true
		- (No. The ego dishes out Karma, because it made need of karma)
	- Sacrifice
	- Not everything is energy! God is not energy.
	- Making friends with your ego
	- Spiritual practice eventually means ascetism and going without stuff
	- The more I meditate, the better my spiritual practice
	- We are evolving towards a peaceful, perfect world
	- Turn the other cheek
		- From #[[Urtext of A Course In Miracles]], pp.104-105
		- Turning the other cheek does NOT mean that you should submit to violence without protest. It means that you cannot BE hurt, and do not want to show your brother anything EXCEPT your wholeness. Show him that he CANNOT hurt you and hold nothing against him, or you hold it against yourself.Teaching is done in many ways, – by formal means, by guidance, and above all BY EXAMPLE.
	-
- Myth, Metaphor, Models: 
  collapsed:: true
  Symbols & Signals of god and the universe
	- Everthing except God is metaphor.
		- "god" is a metaphor for my worldview ?
	- (Describing God, characterizing God, explaining God, Universe, )
	- On Symbols
	- Hologram.
	  collapsed:: true
		- The world of form – the universe of time & space – is like a holographic dream.
		- An image
		- An illusion
		- A dream
		- An optical delusion
		- A hologram
		- A projection
	- The mountain
	- The sun and clouds. The light of the sun is always there. The clouds come (our defences). Night comes (us turning away)
	- Blind men & the elephant
	- River leading to the ocean
	- Tree seedling. Requires protection initially. Grows to withstand greater forces. These forces in turn make it stronger, make it grow.
	- Sleep, dreaming
	- Prodigal Son
	- The lotus
		- The jewel in the heart of the lotus
	- The hologram
	- The dream
	- The movie / projection
	- The ladder
	- Father-Son; God's Son
	- Everything is metaphor.
	- Words are but symbols of symbols
		- "...words are but symbols of symbols. ¹⁰They are thus twice removed from reality. ([ACIM, M-21.1:9-10](https://acim.org/acim/manual/what-is-the-role-of-words-in-healing/en/s/836#1:9-10))
	- The signal and the noise
	  collapsed:: true
		- Nate Silver
		- which is which (signal or noise) depends on what you really want. For one, the noise is the ego; for others, the noise is God.
		- learning to discern Signal from Source from the noisy ego
		- distracting, useless, or misleading information (the noise)
	- The veil of forgetfullness
	- The microscope-telescope-periscope-kaleidoscope.
	- music
	  collapsed:: true
		- the silence between the notes
		- Beethoven
		- Mozart
		- Eminem
- ## Domains and Disciplines
  collapsed:: true
	- Religion as technology. Science as religion. Science as spirituality.
	- Spirituality and the scientific method
	- Sleeping dreams
		- the royal road to the unconscious
		- designed to delineate against pseudo-reality of waking dreams
		-
	- Circular Thinking
		- All thinking is circular thinking.
		- We always prove ourselves right.
		- However, some part of the circle may have been ‘conveniently’ forgotten
		- A straight line is an infinitesimal section of a circle, with the rest of the circle shifted to the unconscious
		- All thinking is circular. At our deepest level, we are always proving our premise.
		- At our deepest level, we are always proving our premise.
	- Everything except God is technology.
	- Technology attempts to mimic the mind.
	- Anthropomorphic principle
	- The history of the world is the story of the projection of pollution, power, pain and punishment.
	- Proving (& disproving) God, and other paradoxes
	  collapsed:: true
		- God cannot be defined and therefore cannot be proven. God can only be experienced.
		- What would proof of God look like?
		- An immovable object vs an infinite force
			- God is not insane.
		- Similarity of “saviour” stories (disproving)
			- eg. as presented in Zeitgeist movie. That since there are multiple similar stories of saviour, that the archetype is unreal, and therefore Jesus et al, and resurrection et al are unreal
			- Instead, this proves/shows the regularity of overlaying untrue and inaccurate interpretations on their lives and teachings
		- The borderlands of [[paradox]]
			- the meaninglessness of meaninglessness
			- get more by subtracting more
			- you can't fill a full cup
				- to have an open-mind you must first realise how closed it is
			- what is the 'I' that is doing
			-
	- On Science and Religion
	- [[Morals - mechanics rather than mandates]], and acting in the world
	  collapsed:: true
		- Otherism
		  collapsed:: true
			- Discrimination by being an ‘other’. Prejudice against an other.
			- Everyone is ‘otherist’
			- We deny it by making special forms of ‘otherism’ and valuing
			- Do you get upset at someone else? Do you get upset at yourself? If so, then you are otherist. Why? Because you are saying “You are the cause of my suffering.”
			- The only possibility to world peace is through inner peace, which comes from recognising and then accepting that you are otherist. Only then can you forgive yourself.
			- Otherism is only resolved through the realisation that there is no other. This realisation is facilitated through the practice of advanced forgiveness and compassion.
		- Speciesism
		  collapsed:: true
			- Discrimination by species. Etymology follows ‘racism’, ‘sexism’, ‘age-ism’
			- Formation of identity through identification with species, and as a species. Etymology follows ‘Buddhism’, ‘Judaism’, ‘Positivism’, ‘Pluralism’
		- From…
		  collapsed:: true
			- The world will be okay when you change what you believe.
			  The world will work when you change what you do.
			- To…
			- The world will be okay when I change what I believe
			- To...
			- the world will be okay when I change what I believe about the world
			- To...
			- The world will cease to be
	- Psychology & Psychotherapy
	  collapsed:: true
		- Will to meaning
			- Kierkegaard
			- Viktor Frankl
		- Will to power
			- Adler
		- Will to pleasure
			- Freud
	- Philosophy
		- Questioning
			- ...as genuine inquiry and discovery
			- ...as a delay manoever and divisive mechanism
	- History
	  collapsed:: true
		- The history of the world is the story of the projection of pollution, pain, punishment, power-source and problem-source onto others.
			- Victims and victimisers
			-
- ## Metamechanica: Practical responses to the Metaphysics
  collapsed:: true
	- forget-forgive; remember-dismember
	- You can't fix what is designed to be broken.
	- Purpose is everything. Inner motivation, moreso than outer mechanism, determines outcome.
	- Anything that requires defense is inherently weak. But that does not necessarily mean you should not defend it.
	- The real jihad is the one within, with your own demons.
	- Spiritual development is the shift from taking zero responsibility for one’s situation to total responsibility for one’s situation.
	- Spiritual growth is the expansion of the circle of compassion. More identifying types are included -> Neohumanism / Sarkar circle
		- Expanding the circle of identity.
	- FORCK closes the gap between you and your (br)others. This includes species, objects, thought systems and not only people. Furthermore, this includes your other selves. (We all carry multiple voices, multiple role players)
	- Implement the message. Don’t idolise the man. Try to follow the example yourself. Don’t make an example of the failings of others.
	- You cannot add to God.
		- You can only remove the blocks to the awareness of god.
	- de-centering
	- FORCK
	  collapsed:: true
		- FORCK You!
		- All religions, sects, faiths, teachings have value. All have a role to play.
			- All religions, sects, faiths, teachings must ultimately be transcended.
		- What is required, however, is our own forgiveness of ourselves and our deep-seated, unconscious guilt. I miscreated something imperfect and
		- Forget-forgive; remember-dismember
			-
		- FORCK closes the gap between you and your (br)others. This includes species, objects, thought systems and not only people. Furthermore, this includes your other selves. (We all carry multiple voices, multiple role players)
		- An ever increasing Circle of compassion, at a mental level
			- at a physical, worldly level, no system can include everyone or everything, nor should it
		- Where does your love stop?
		- Life is letting go if the limits to love.
		- Spiritual growth is the expansion of the circle of compassion. More identifying types are included -> Neohumanism / Sarkar circle
		- Expanding the circle of identity
		- Forgiveness - ego’s version versus Holy Spirit’s version
		-
	- From you change to me change
	  collapsed:: true
		- From…
			- The world will be okay when you change what you believe.
			- The world will work when you change what you do.
		- To…
			- The world will be okay when I change what I believe.
	- Otherism
	  collapsed:: true
		- Discrimination by being an ‘other’. Prejudice against an other.
		- Everyone is ‘otherist’
		- We deny it by making special forms of ‘otherism’, and quickly rejecting those, removing ourselves from that category, or justifying our establishment of the category.
		- Otherism happens at a mental level
			- one can assess based on outward group identity and not be discriminatory or prejudiced
			- on the other hand, one can take no external worldly action or word, and yet be very much discriminatory, either
		- Do you get upset at someone else? Do you get upset at yourself? If so, then you are otherist. Why? Because you are saying “You are the cause of my suffering.”
		- The only possibility to world peace is through inner peace, which comes from recognising and then accepting that you are otherist. Only then can you forgive yourself.
		- Otherism is only resolved through the realisation that there is no other. This realisation is facilitated through the practice of advanced forgiveness and compassion.
	- Anger, doubt, jealousy, confusion, hatred, cynicism, boredom, apathy…are all masks of fear. Fear arises from a sense of guilt because a sense of guilt calls for punishment. Therefore surface fears are the tip of the iceberg of the deeper fear of punishment from God. But, critically, it is me who has ascribed the attribute of Punisher to God.
	- Everything is technology. That includes ideas, concepts and thought systems.
	- The history of the world is the story of the projection of pollution, pain, power-source and problem-source onto others. The future of the world is the same unless we learn to give a FORCK.
	- The purpose and role of questioning
		- Questioning as genuine inquiry and discovery
		- Questioning as a delay manoever and divisive mechanism
	- Spirituality is the practice of one’s idea of oneself. Therefore, everyone is spiritual.
	- All practice – spiritual, religious, scientific, artistic, mundane – is valuable if it promotes forgiveness, compassion and kindness.
	- Faith is the bridge between belief and knowledge.
	- Seek not to change your behaviour. Seek to change your mind.
	- Spiritual development is the process of removing obstacles to including
	- Spiritual development is the shift from taking zero responsibility for one’s situation to total responsibility for one’s situation.
	- Spiritual development is the shift of all power being seemingly outside and external to oneself, to the recognition that all power is within oneself.
	- Your experience is evidence of your beliefs.
	- Beliefs don’t make Reality or Truth but they do make the appearance of it.
	- Meditation & prayer access the Inner Teacher and Higher Power that lies within all of us.
	- Seek not to change your behaviour. Seek to change your mind.
	- The truth doesn’t require defence. However, our Truth “muscle” is very weak and thus requires vigilance against the attacks of the ego.
	- Anything that requires defense is inherently weak.
	- History is the story of the projection of power, pain, pollution.
	- The world confuses Truth with truth-tools.
	- Beliefs don’t make Reality or Truth but they do make the appearance of it.
	- Your experience is evidence of your beliefs.
	- Practices
		- The truth doesn’t require defence. However, our Truth “muscle” is very weak and thus requires vigilance for the attacks of the ego.
		- Seek not to change your behaviour. Seek to change your mind.
			- [Therefore, seek not to change the world, but choose to change your mind about the world.](https://acim.org/acim/chapter-21/introduction/en/s/251?wid=search&q=change%20the%20world)
		- All practice – spiritual, religious, scientific, artistic, mundane – is valuable if it promotes FORCK: forgiveness, compassion and kindness.
		- Spiritual progress is measured by an increasing experience of peace, not by time spent meditating or healing modalities mastered, nor by any worldly metric of status.
		-
	- The body
		- Brain and heart as "signal receivers" or "signal detectors" rather than "signal generators"
	- Spiritual development is the shift of all power being seemingly outside and external to oneself, to the recognition that all power is within oneself. That all responsibility lies with me.
- ## Messages from messengers
  collapsed:: true
  Reports from the non-dual jewel and duel 
  (those who've walked or glimpsed the end of the path)
	- gateless gate
	- [[The Infinite Castle]] - [[Teresa of Avila]]
	- [[The Varieties of Religious Experience]]
	- Holocaust victims at perfect peace
		- Wapnick
		- Chopra
		- ?? ten boom
	- Wilber
	- [[Evelyn Underhill]]
	- [[We Who Wrestle With God]] by [[Jordan Peterson]]
	- [[Practice of the Presence of God]]
	- [[Rumi]]
	- [[St Francis of Assisi]]
	-
- Common Questions, Claims, Controversies and Conspiracies
  collapsed:: true
	- Truth is stranger than fiction.
		- They both come from the same mind.
	- Death penalty
	- The bloodline of Jesus
	- Contentious issues and points of debate in metaphysics, theology and philosophy (do not confuse with misconceptions.
	- Must be clear on the difference. I decide which is which, with the help of the Holy Spirit.)
	- If God exists, how can there be evil? If there is a God, how can He let bad things happen?
	- The bloodline of Jesus
- Issues & Topics: Some comments and Consequences and outcomes, applications of AMT
  collapsed:: true
	- Evolution, Intelligent Design and the Anthropomorphic Principle
	- Abortion, euthanasia, death penalty and genetic engineering
	- Stem cells
	- Euthanasia
	- [[free will]]
	- We must resolve science and spirit to be equal. NO!! Science is a METHOD to discover more about spirit and anything else.
	- Religion is a truth-tool. Science is a truth-tool. Neither are the truth but both can help realise the truth.
	- Violent Non-violent resistance; Non-violent resistance vs Armed revolution
	- Genetic engineering
	- Stem cells
	- Death penalty
	- Euthanasia
	- Discussions of ethical issues in AMT. Ramifications and consequences of AMT.
	- Geography. No sacred lands. All sacred lands
		- The holiest of all the spots on earth is where an ancient hatred has become a present love. #quote #ACIM
	- Abortion
	- Vegetarianism
	- [[Evolution in AMT]]
	- Transhumanism
	- Bilocation.
		- Explanation of Jesus being in Kashmir, Japan...
	- The Holy Grail, the spear tip, the shroud of Turin
		- idols, misdirections
		- all power in them invested by believers
	- Placebo, nocebo, and variation therein
	- Theories of Everything; variations in diet, medicine etc
		- You can't ever perfectly "fix" what is designed to be broken.
	- Activism & Change-making
		-
	- Political and government systems
		- It is higher-order spiritual development that libertarianism, democracy, (benevolent) dictatorship, socialism and communism become indistinguishable, ultimately one-and-the same.
	- Everything shifts to being a metaphor: The choice is then which metaphor, tied to what purpose?
		- The real jihad is the one within, with your own demons.
	- Politics: reuniting enlightened church and state
	- Law: blanket
	- Science vs Religion
		- The religious and spiritual nature of science
		- The scientific and spiritual nature of religion
		- The scientific and religious nature of spirituality
	- Evolution towards a new Earth, a world of justice
- The Bible (New & Old Testaments), and the story of its development, consist of multiple components:
  collapsed:: true
	- The Bible (New & Old Testaments), and the story of its development, consist of multiple components. SO, THEREFORE, WE MUST SEPARATE THE WHEAT FROM THE CHAFF. DON’T THROW THE BABY OUT WITH THE BATHWATER.
	- Record of some historical facts – terrestrial & extra-terrestrial
	- Spiritual teachings – correctly understood
	- Spiritual teachings – misinterpreted & misquoted
	- Spiritual teachings – metaphor & parable
	- Spiritual teachings – distorted &
	- Guides for practical living in various contexts
	- Innocent mistakes of record & misinterpretation of messages
	- Intentional falsehoods & misleading messages
	- The truth of God & the falsehoods of man
	- Myths, the masks of God and projection / anthropomorphization
	- Translation and interpretation errors
	- Political power play
	- Nature worship/pagan
	- SO, THEREFORE, WE MUST SEPARATE THE WHEAT FROM THE CHAFF.
	- DON’T THROW THE BABY OUT WITH THE BATHWATER.
- M-Index: Miscellaneous M-words; The Malphabet
  collapsed:: true
	- Mechanistic Science
	- Note to self: don't just use any M-words for its own sake. Be selective, critical, high-quality
	- Myth,
		- All myths (falsehoods) are myths (guiding stories)
		- Why? Because its all false, yet we are on the path to remembering Truth.
	- misconceptions,
	- mindfulness
	- mindlessness
	- meditation
	- [[Meditations (book)]] by [[Marcus Aurelius]]
	- mystery
	- miracle
	- magic
		- spell, curse, wand; external instrument, and belief in them
			- belief
		- sleight of hand
			- failure to observe well; willingness to not look
	- motivation
	- Mirth and Merriment
	- metaphor
	- model(s) & modelling
	- [[mental models]]
	- mind
	- mental
	- machines
	- measurement
	- miscreation
	- multiple, many
		- universes
		- perspectives, but not multiple truths
		- pathways to God
	- many lives, multiple lives
	- many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics
		- [[Hugh Everett III]]
		- they are already made
	- multiple personality disorder
		- the universe as multiple personality disorder
	- mono
		- as in "one", unity
	- monotheism
	- [[Moses and Monotheism]]
	- The Matrix
	- murder
		- of God
		- of brother
	- martyr, martyrdom
	- meaning
	- memory
		- memory of God; Holy Spirit
		-
	- morals
		- morals as mechanics
		- meta-ethics, meta-morals
	- maze
		- the labyrinth of life, world; designed to not escape, to not even know you're in a maze; to
		- maze of mesmerization
	- map
		- (is not the territory). You must walk the path (apply)
		- map reading develops the more you explore the terrain
		- maps are built on projections
		- maps have improved over time
		- maps are the result of people's exploration
		- different maps offer different information
	- mountain metaphor
		- each aspect/facet looks different, different terrain/map requiring different tools, seeing different features
		- as you get higher you see more of the landscape
		- at some point you have to climb; you can't 'walk around the mountain face' looking for an easier way for too long
		- sometimes you have to go down to go further up
	- [[Misanthropic Principle]], miss-Anthropic principle
	- mathematics
		- created to prove itself important
		- [[Godel incompleteness theorem]]
		- [[The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences]]
		- [Why Physics Is Unreasonably Good at Creating New Math - Nautilus](https://nautil.us/why-physics-is-unreasonably-good-at-creating-new-math-797056/?_sp=b9bf8891-5ab7-4aad-8f76-09499ecbdf46.1727576213198)
		- [[Why Physics is Unreasonably Good at Creating New Math]]
		-
		- maths was created in the moment the universe was; maths comes from the same mind as miscreation; of course maths will support its own reality and power;
		-
	- [[Mandelbrot]]
		- [Mandelbrot’s fractals are not only gorgeous – they taught mathematicians how to model the real world](https://theconversation.com/mandelbrots-fractals-are-not-only-gorgeous-they-taught-mathematicians-how-to-model-the-real-world-244302)
		- the beauty is beguiling
		- holographic: whole system is repeated and represented in any part of the system
	- minus
		- 2 ways to get more: add a positive, subtract a negative
		- removing a mask
	- multiplicity
		- fragmentation, fracture
		- lila
	- misinformation
		- [[Everything is misinformation]]
		- [[John Wheeler]]; everything is information
	- more - the ego's mechanism
	- [[morphogenetic fields]]
	- Myths, the masks of God and projection / anthropomorphization
	- magisteria
		- NOMA. Stephen Gould. Yes, true, but the non-overlapping magisteria are God and ego, not science and religion. Science and religion are very overlapping.
	- method
		- particular reference to scientific method but applies generally
		- you can't observe, apprehend, measure what you method does not and can not accommodate
	- message and messengers
		- the message is always first for the messenger ie. preach through practice, wordlessly
	- militancy and fundamentalism
		- behind/within every fanatic is the seed of doubt
		- "The fanatic is always concealing a secret doubt". George Smiley, [[Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy]] #quote
		- "Fanaticism is always a sign of repressed doubt." #quote [[Carl Jung]]
	- metapattern
		- The pattern of patterns
	- metaproblem
		- the problem with problems
		- the problem of problems
		- the one real problem - a sense of separation from Source
	- megacrisis
	- [[maya]]
	- meta and Meta
		- there is nothing meta about Meta
		- coopting
	- mind-matter interaction
		- psi
		- placebo
		- [[PEAR Lab]]
	- mirror
		- the world as the mirror of the mind
			- quote from Cloud Atlas
	- monochromatic thinking
		- one shade of grey
	- mantra
	- malady
		- sickness, illness
	- Mary
		- mother of Jesus
		- Magdalene, wife of Jesus
	- MBR, [[microwave background radiation]]
		- problems with the Big Bang
	- Messiah
		- Handel's Messiah
	- Mayans, Menkaure, Moai, Mamallapuram & Megaliths
	- Maitreya
	- Mahasamadhi
	- Mahakalpa, mahayuga
		- grand time cycles
	- McTaggart ; position on time
	- [[Mourning and Melancholia]]
	- Mao, Marx and manifestos
	- manifestation
		- in terms of how 'reality' manifests itself
		- the Secret; new age 'manifesting'
	- Middle Way
	- mindset
	- [[René Magritte]]
	- [[Maldacena]]
	- Marquez, Murakami, Mozart, Magritte
	- Mars, Martians,
	- Mulder (as in X-Files)
	- Maharashi, Maharaj, Mahatma
		- Ramana
		- Nisagardatta
		- Mohandas
	- Mohandas, Martin Luther, Martin Luther King, Mother Teresa
	- Mickelson & Morley
	- metanoia
		- [Metanoia |disambiguation - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metanoia)
		- [Metanoia (psychology) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metanoia_%28psychology%29)
		- [Metanoia (theology) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metanoia_%28theology%29)
		- [What is metanoia? by Peter Senge, Author of The Fifth Discipline - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4RBtBAAdt20)
	- metanoia, meltdown and mid-life crisis
	- metamorphosis: coccoons and Kafka
		- coccoon
		- Kafka
	- The Mount and its Sermon
		- [[The Sermon on the Mount]]
	- [[Minerva]]
	- Machiavelli
	- Mephistopheles
	- [[Maxwell]], Magnetism and Modesty ; history of field equations and fields;
	- [[moral injury]]
	- [[metatheory]]
		- self-referential systems: using the theory (of whatever) to look at the theory
		- This never brings into question the fundaments of the theory. Its premises must remain unquestioned for it to be used in the first place.
	- [[Mithras]]
	- [[Hermann Minkowski]]
	- [[McGilchrist, the Master and his Emissary]]
	- Moderation
		- 'Everything in moderation, even moderation.' #quote #[[Oscar Wilde]]
	- [[Mandell]], Manhattan; the man who paints the future
		- painted 9-11 attacks
	- [[Metatron]] and the
	- [[Merkaba]]
	- [[Mandala]]
	- [[At the Mountains of Madness]] and [[The Morning of the Magicians]]
	-
- Disclosure Statement & Closing comments
  collapsed:: true
	- Transparency
	  I am an ACIM student. My study & practice of ACIM has inspired me to write this book.
	  However…
	- The ideas reflected in this book do not necessarily represent the teachings of ACIM. For that you must read, study and apply The Course yourself.
	- This is not an advertisement for ACIM, per se. It is not an advertisement for any one particular spiritual faith, tradition, denomination, group or whatever.
	  It is, however, an appeal to FORCK. It is an appeal to become more forgiving, more compassionate and more kind. Metaphysics is presented here to facilitate this. Myths and misconceptions are discussed to help remove barriers to FORCKing yourself. This book is an appeal to you to undertake whatever spiritual practice helps you become more FORCK. I don’t care if its ACIM or not. That is just the truth-tool I use. It works for me. Just remember, whatever spiritual path you pursue is not the Truth. It is a way to Truth.
	- I am not a spiritual teacher, of ACIM or anything else. I have the worldly teachers I respect and refer to, according to the guidance of the higher Teacher within (the Teacher that resides within all of us).
	  Disclosure statement: My work inspired by ACIM, or rather, the Presence that the practice of ACIM makes available to me.
	  An acknowledgment and appeal from the author
	  About Adam
	- Comment on moving forward – future books will emerge from this one, expanding on principles presented.
	- Acknowledgements:
		- Ken Wapnick
		- Gary Renard
		- Neale Donald Walsch
		- Ken Wilber
		- Sohail Inayatullah
	-
-
-
- I want to have links to my future/next/other works eg. EFA, BBB, Inner Beginner, X-Science et al through principles expressed
- Do I need to write something on [[Science and Non-Duality (org)]] and how it does not actually reflect, promote or espouse non-duality
- quotes
- Caroline Myss, woundology, [[Why People Don't Heal and How They Can]]
- [[The More-ganism]]
-