- #old-notes #incorporate
- Inner Beginner is a manual for those seeking greater meaning, peace and joy in their lives.
- Inner Beginner is a guide for those on, or about to embark on, the journey within but who may have reservations and misgivings about spiritual practice.
- Inner Beginner is a simple introductory text on applied metaphysics, offering a model of God-Universe-Space-Time Organization (GUSTO) that allows for peace in a world of suffering and separation.
- Inner Beginner is a clearinghouse of some alternative and lesser known spiritual practices that offer depth, rigour and example.
- Inner Beginner is a clarification and discussion of misconceptions and myths around God, church, religious texts and teachings for seekers of peace and healing.
- In an era of unprecedented material affluence and advanced technology, incredible misery and suffering persists. This pain is evident not only in the lives of many of the materially impoverished and those witness to war, violence and catastrophe. The struggle, strain and stress resides in the hearts and minds of all of us. Globalized telecommunications and media make this agony all the more apparent and accessible.
- Many people are seeking to make sense of their lives and the world in the face of this suffering. Many more people are seeking meaning and value where the accelerating appearance of new technology is failing. Many more people are beginning to look within for some calm amidst the storm.
- Yet many people are discouraged or delayed from spiritual practice by the incongruence of many existing religious and spiritual paths. Traditional religion has let many people down. New Atheism may be an advancement but may leave you uninspired and unsatisfied with its lack of imagination and self-awareness. The New Age embraces scientific developments but may suffer from a lack of depth, rigour and example. What to do then?
- Don’t give up. There are alternatives. God, peace, joy and happiness are not dead, despite the best efforts of many to kill It, or at least make It boring and painful. All spiritual ideas and anti-ideas still hold immense value despite criticisms and failures. Yet this book will try to help you make some sense of them. This guide aims to heal our misguided ideas about Spirit, the spiritual path and spiritual practice.
- This is not a book on comparative religion. The aim is not to remain in the realm of theory, academia or curiosity. Rather we hope to delve into the depths of experience. For this, a map that inspires is required, as is a system of practice to traverse the territory. Inner Beginner offers an outline of the first and many lesser known options for the second that may prove more satisfying and rigorous.
- The ideas in this book may not be new to you. Their aggregation, and philosophical consequences of this, may be new, and may be challenging. Yet in challenge lies reward.