see-also:: ((675a25a6-dffc-4251-94b7-21cf23a96e4d))

-
- Sensible, centralised hub of data around scarcity and success.
  collapsed:: true
	- Ease of access for general public, students and researchers alike.
	- Easier understanding by unifying under the universal umbrella: Do I/we have enough?
	- EFA seeks to make sense of the debate and dilemmas around (in)sufficiency and prosperity.The data is overwhelming in quantity as well as overwhelming in message.
- Turn poverty/prosperity data into stories. 
  collapsed:: true
  Turn siloed stories into coherent grand narrative.
	- We aim to illuminate this complex issue and generate concise insights by being data-driven, community-curated, expert-moderated and graphically focused.
	- The goal is to knit together existing disparate data and discoveries from high-quality researchers and commentators on overwhelming topics into an insightful and coherent message of care, clarity and compassionate critique.
- Assist decision-making
  collapsed:: true
	- EFA attempts to inform and remind of the general characteristics and features of (in)effective strategies. To achieve this we seek to identify powerful leverage points for health, wealth and peace. We distill debate around models, systems and the principles behind prosperity.
- Remind, re-mind, and re-orient towards more effective solutions.
  collapsed:: true
	- EFA doesn't expect to solve the problems of poverty and malaise on a significant scale in a reasonable time, or at all for that matter. We're not that naive. But if we can get people pondering and (re)considering alternatives, stimulate quality discussion, and open some minds, (including our own) to think a little differently about these matters, then we have succeeded.
- Cultivate community
  collapsed:: true
	- EFA seeks to become a collaborative and compassionately critical community. We invite people to get involved in whatever preferred capacity. After all, the story of the world requires the world to (re)write it.
- See also ((675a25a6-dffc-4251-94b7-21cf23a96e4d))