- #EFA #macrobout
- Before we get into the guts, I better introduus myself. My name is Adam Duus. I am a caucasian male, born and raised in affluent middle-class Australia. I have the fortune of a loving, caring family as well as a private school and university education. I’ve lived in safe, secure neighbourhoods. I’ve had opportunities for many varieties of mostly positive experience.
- As such, I acknowledge that I may be part of a priveliged minority. I have the resources to sit down and write/publish this: time, freedom, tools, internet access… I am not in a daily existential struggle for physical survival though I do grapple with inner demons, as you. Enough For All then not only is to satisfy my curiosity about the questions it poses, it also seeks to investigate how my own wealth, inner and outer, relates to the rest of the world. Can I have enough because others do not? How does my affluence and consumption affect others elsewhere? What can I do, if anything, to assist and alleviate scarcity? Many have offered answers to these questions though I question some of them, and few (to my current knowledge) have integrated all or many of the dimensions of the issue.
- While I have travelled extensively across the world, and lived in developing countries such as South Africa and Colombia, I do not pretend to really understand the extreme conditions of material scarcity, personal insecurity and social conflict that much of the world experiences as the everyday norm. I am deeply moved by images and stories of those who endure conditions that we all hope to put an end to but I can’t say that I fully appreciate them. I do have my own sense of poverty and scarcity, however, which I believe is something everyone carries in their own form, to varying degrees. For me it appears as not enough time, not enough money, not enough clarity, not enough confidence, not enough foresight etc etc.  Like all, I am travelling my own journey in dealing with this. Undertaking this project is one aspect of that journey. Yet, it is my feeling that there are universal themes in this issue with many forms of expression available to suit the context.
- As such, the EFA project is thus not a one-way sermon on what the poor, disadvantaged and ill should do – what YOU or THEY should do. No. Rather, it is an investigation into the creation and reinforcement of my own sense of poverty and scarcity, at an individual level and in my world. This world includes you, dear reader, as well as those completely ignorant of or removed from any endeavour like this. In a sense, I can only help me by helping others; and I can only help heal others by simultaneously submitting myself to healing.
- Less philosophically, I am also developing skills on this journey and appreciate any suggestions on how better to improve my work here.