Conclusion  Essentially, there is nothing new in this book. What may be new is the packaging the way the thesis is presented, the data integrated or the message worded. But fundamentally, the underlying message is the same. It has been expounded for millennia by the spiritual traditions of the world and reaffirmed through the painful experience of many who have tried otherwise.  Some data may be fresh, but I did not measure it or discover it. I merely made sense of it. I combined it with other data in a coherent message.  Some may take the same data and arrive at a different conclusion. That is fine. But in doing so I would ask you look at those other conclusions and ask some simple, inter-related questions Does this conclusion help me Does this conclusion help the world Does this resulting idea help me to help the world  If this idea were extrapolated to its limit, which limit would that be Would it arrive at peace, prosperity, joy and abundance Or would it arrive at pain, fear, conflict and protecting insufficiency Is this conclusion, this resulting idea, really a new idea Or is it an old wolf in a lamb’s clothing (Or a lamb that doesn’t know its really a wolf cub) At its core, its essence, is it a rehash of a failed idea but sufficiently disguised to lure the unsuspecting   I have said above that the central idea of this book is not new. It is as old as time. It is the perennial philosophy. It is the wisdom which is proven but only when it has been properly tried and tested.    Experience can be a liberating teacher. Yet it can also be a repetitious slave-driver.  “Seek first the kingdom of Heaven, and all shall be given unto you.” 