public:: true

- # [The MetaMechanic Mycelium]([[Metamechanic Mycelium]])
  The [knowledge garden]([[knowledge gardening]]) that underlies [[my projects]] , [[Adam Duus]], the [MetaMechanic]([[What is a "metamechanic"?]])
	- My name is **Adam Duus**. I am an independent researcher working on a suite of [projects]([[Projects]])
	- I am interested in novel approaches to some [big questions and grand challenges]([[Big Questions]])
	- To address these challenges, I invite you to read more, teach me and engage in [[X-C Communities]]
	- I frame my interests and approach their treatment through an evolving toolbox of lenses, concepts, postulates and principles I loosely label [metamechanica]([[Metamechanica]])
	- I try to curate a list of [resources & references]([[Resources & References]])
	- Collaboration and curated community contributions are central to the projects here. You may be interested in an [X-C community]([[X-C Communities]]) devoted to a particular idea.
	- Please contact me with suggestions, critique, questions and to get involved.
	- Projects will eventually appear on social media though I am not the biggest fan and best user of it.
-
- ### Using this site
  collapsed:: true
  #toWrite
	- Written in [[Logseq]], one of the new generation of advanced connected note-taking tools
	- Features of this site
		- Bullet-point outline writing
			- You can get rid of the bullets but I actively sought this for [[Folded Writing]]. I apply [[TL;DR]] as standard to modern non-fiction content [[prosumption]] overload.
			- "Halo"
			  collapsed:: true
			  If the bullet point has a "halo" (like this one), it contains sub-points. Once the cursor is hovering somewhere over the bullet point text, an arrow will appear. Clicking the arrow will open/unfold the point to reveal sub-points.
				- Noice. Well played.
				- I believe this feature is particularly important in this age of [[information overload]], aka #TLDR. I employ this to practice [[Folded Writing]], and introduce orienting levels of information importance, like a Table of Contents but going further down.
			- Clicking on the bullet point itself will open that point on its "parent" point's own page, showing the "breadcrumbs" at the top of the screen.
		- Folding / drop-down headers/bullet points for [[Folded Writing]]
		- Links and Backlinks
			- Links
				- Backlinks
				- Tags
			- Linked backlinks
			- Unlinked backlinks
		- Pages and Blocks
		  collapsed:: true
			- Each bullet-point is a block, whether they contain sub-points or not.
			- Pages are made up of blocks. Blocks can contain sub-blocks (sub-points).
				- The difference is that pages are an actual file while blocks are not, though blocks can be turned into pages, if desired.
			- Embedding pages and blocks
				- Pages and blocks can be "embedded" into other pages and blocks. These can be identified as having a background colour/border and different icons.
		- Information Graph
		  collapsed:: true
			- aka *Page Graph*, this is a network diagram of connections between notes
			- Currently the links are only hyper-textual relationships and not conceptual relationships
			- I hope to incorporate [[Knowledge Cartography]] here via a typology of links between notes beyond hypertext links
				- An example would be [[Concept Mapping]]
		- Sidebar - left
		  collapsed:: true
			- Works like a menu bar
			- Contains key pages
		- Sidebar - right
		  collapsed:: true
			- Holding the 'shift' button and clicking on a link will open the right sidebar.
			- An interesting feature visible here is the *Page Graph* visible via link at top of sidebar
			- Using your mouse scroll wheel or laptop touchpad to zoom in/out of the page graph
		- Navigation
		  collapsed:: true
			- Browser "back" button
			- Home/house icon at top
			- "All pages" gives a list of all pages
			  collapsed:: true
				- default organised by date modified
				- click on header to sort by that header
			- Page graph view
	- [[Rationale for writing in Logseq]]
	- Published via [[Github Pages]]
		- Guide: [Publishing (Logseq Desktop App Only)](https://docs.logseq.com/#/page/publishing%20%28desktop%20app%20only%29)
		- [Creating a GitHub Pages site - GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site)
	- I am a complete #noob in both of these and trying to learn more about them.
	-
-
- # [[Projects]] 
  collapsed:: true
  I sporadically and non-linearly work on a variety of ideas that may one day become something.
	- ### [[Enough For All]]
	  So that more may be more and have more
	- ### [[DiaGnosis]]
	  Software and systems for Diagramming Knowledge
	- ### [[Inner Beginner]]
	  For those beginning the journey within
	- ### [[X-C Communities]]
	  Curated, critical, cartographic content communities
	- ### [[Fresh Alternatives]]
	  Alternative Futures, Religion, Economics, Science, History & more...
	- ### [[Futures & Foresight Education]]
	  Education of, for and about the Future(s)
	- ### [[FORCK]]
	  FORgiveness, Compassion, Kindness
	- ### [[Global Effort]]
	  Global Energy Futures, Foresight & Transitions
	- ### [[FACTs 4CT]]
	  Fringe, Alternative & Conspiracy Theories for Critical Thinking
	- ### [Australian New Energy Organisation]( [[Australian New Energy Organisation]] )
	  An Australian branch of a global energy movement
	- ### [[Behind, Below, Beyond]]
	  Behind the facade, below the surface, beyond the horizon: 
	  News analysis that doesn't make you dizzy.
	- ### [[Metamechanica]] 
	  Applying metaphysics
	- ### [[Array Attire]]
	  A Ray of Light in Bleak Business Attire
	- ### [[MYWOF]]
	  My Year Without Fear
	- ### [[Coherence app]]
	  An app for solopreneurs to identify and track vision, goals, systems, habits and tasks into alignment.
	- ### [[Metamechanical AI]]
	  Augmented Insight and Amplified Intuition on top of Artificial Intelligence
	- ### [[ACIM Transcription & Translation]] 
	  Transcribing A Course in Miracles into Logseq and Obsidian for networked thought.
	  Eventually similarly transcribing the translations in order to learn some foreign language.
	-
	-
- # [Books]([[My Books]])
  Nascent, infant ideas to be fleshed out and formed
	- ### [[Another M-Theory]]
	  Oh my God! 
	  Oh my! God?
	  O, my God...
	- ### [[Babies, Bibles and Bathwater]]
	  Discernment, humility and grey thinking in the search for truth.
	- ### [[The Church of Science]]
	  Science as Religion. Religion as Technology. Spirituality as Science.
	- ### [[Blind (Spot) Faith]]
	  The role of faith in Science, Knowledge and Faith.
	- ### [[X-Science]]
	  anti-science, unScience, aScience, meta-Science
	  Schools of science and how they are, and are not, scientific.
	- ### [[The pSilence of Science]]
	  How orthodox Science ignores and denies psi, intuition, extra-sensory phenomona and dismisses and devalues the irrational and trans-rational but unconsciously and/or secretly relies on it.
	- ### [[Ultimate Conspiracy. Ultimate Innovation.]]
	  Conspiracies are around us. However the big one is within us.
	- ### [[The Forgotten Technologies]]
	  Everything is technology. So what really do we use it for?
	- ### [[Enough For All - webBook]]
	- ### [[A Textbook for the Futures]]
	- ### [[Holonaut]]
	  A traveller in the noosphere.
- # About
  collapsed:: true
  A little background, context, overview and guidance
	- ### About me, the Metamechanic - [[Adam Duus]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[Adam Duus]]}}
	- ### About [[Metamechanic Mycelium]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[Metamechanic Mycelium]]}}
	- ### [[About the Projects]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[About the Projects]]}}
	- ### [[What is a "metamechanic"?]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[What is a "metamechanic"?]]}}
	- ### What is [[Metamechanica]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Where metaphor meets machines
		- {{embed [[Metamechanica]]}}
	- ### About [[X-C Communities]]
		- My foreseen role in the projects is one of creator and curator, rather than owner and sole-operator.
	- What, Who, Why, When, Where & How. Projects, People, Purpose, Process & Plan.
-
- # Some Themes, Topics, Areas of Interest
  collapsed:: true
	- [[History of Science]], [[Philosophy of Science]] & [[Psience]]
	- [[Fringe, Alternative & Conspiracy Theories]]: 
	  the theories, their philosophy, psychology;
	- [[Knowledge Cartography]]
	- [[Non-dual spirituality]] and [[Comparative Religion]]
	- [[Big Questions]], [[Universal challenges]] and [[Wicked Problems, Social Messes & Civilizational Knots]]
	- [[Theories of Everything]], [[X-Disciplinarity]]
	- [[MacroScience & MetaTechnology]]
	- [[Futures Studies]]
- # Latest Scratchings & Entries
- # Position & Philosophy
  collapsed:: true
	- This is largely a rephrasing of the principles of [[Metamechanica]]
- # Contact, Collaborate, Contribute
-