The premise/thesis of EFA is that excess and inefficient and inappropriate resource usage is a result of looking in the wrong place (ie. To that particular resource) for salvation, satisfaction, fulfillment.

- “Enough” = generating more/acquiring more + requiring less/relying on less. Some things we can create more of. Other things are finite. Eg. Land, water  Trying to look for abundance in finite resources is misguided madness. The finite is, by definition, limited and scarce. Material resources are finite. Therefore, abundance is only really found in the Infinite. Question “What is Infinite” Answer Ideas are Infinite. Mind is Infinite. God is the Infinite Idea.  We misuse resources and create insufficiency by misidentifying/misdirecting our source of power and abundance. “Looking for love in all the wrong places” We’re trying to satisfy the Infinite through the finite.  Note on minimum requirements and standards for living I cannot set the minimums. I can merely show what is possible, currently available, previously available etc.  Is there actually enough for all I am starting to wonder... What if waste is not of a quantity sufficient enough to cover the lack Then we have to redirect resources, use resources more efficiently and alter lifestyles.  The premise/thesis of EFA is that excess and inefficient and inappropriate resource usage is a result of looking in the wrong place (ie. To that particular resource) for salvation, satisfaction, fulfilment.  Maslow’s assertion “Self-actualization” happens only after fulfilment of other tiers. It represents the path generally taken by humans. But is it really back to front
- EFA may not provide solutions directly, but it does identify the problem. By not providing too many solutions, it opens up for suggestions  While there is a belief in lack and scarcity, there will be power struggles to control the seeming source of life.  Current economic systems don’t address (or even acknowledge) The idea there is a belief in lack The location of the lack The way to remedy the lack (it simply moves the lack around in time and place)  In fact, current economic systems rely on lack for their operation. It is a building block.  All poverty is power poverty physical power, authority, metaphysical  Solutions sections Discuss macro-solution principles (a lead-in to universal principles, macroenergetics) State summarily the problem resolution approach ie. Reverse of part 1 Form v Content Integral CLA Prout Currency Exchange Tax (a specific example) Discuss some specific attempts   Confusion of Problem with Symptoms Currently problems are seen to be Overpopulation Biodiversity loss, ecological degradation Climate change etc However, these are actually symptoms. They are symptoms of separation.