Uniqueness – What EFA is not Some readers may not have picked up this book due to misconceptions. Others may have made it this far despite their misconceptions. Let’s clear up what this book is not, at the very start. Much has been written in recent new-age literature about “manifesting abundance” and “creating your own reality.” EFA is not this. EFA is not “Think and Grow Rich” or “The Secret” rehashed or repackaged. It is not meant to be another new-age self-help “manifesting abundance” doctrine. I don’t think 7+ billion people can all drive a Ferrari in a peaceful world. However, it is asserted here that 7+ billion people can all experience all the benefits of what a Ferrari aims to achieve but ultimately falls short in delivering mobility, comfort, inner contentment.  Most attempts at alleviating poverty have been highly technical in their theoretical framework and language. These frameworks and models have been inaccessible to most people which seems odd when everyone is poor in some way. EFA is not meant to be an academic, theoretical treatise targeted for an elite “expert” audience. It is intended to be an easy-to-follow, systematic, logical progression of data and ideas accessible to most audiences (I hope). Indeed, over-intellectualisation may be a factor in poverty creation or reinforcement, or possibly another expression of it.  EFA is not a megaphone for any existing economic, political or technological “solutions” or religious reckonings. It does not intend to further fuel ideological conflicts but assist in healing these divisions. Saying this though, many people will not agree with what is said. There is a central thesis and alternative practices and systems will be presented. However, they are proposed as alternative options to be applied contextually and are not holy econo-political scripture. They are proposed for your consideration.  EFA is not an attempt to appease my guilt by telling “the poor and afflicted” what “they” should do. I, Adam, do have my own experience of poverty, scarcity and lack, and therefore am in no position to lecture. I am a student-patient here. I, Adam, also play a role in the poverty experience of others, I’m sure. Rather, EFA will try to explore the factors in creating scarcity. I shall offer some insights, of my own and of others, in treating the problem at its cause, while practicing what I preach to undo my own sense of poverty in my individual life as in my world.  Finally, EFA is not intended to be a commandment, written in stone by a priveliged prophet with special access to the ‘truth’. It is intended as a guide through, and hopefully out of, dark and despairing terrain. As with any guide or map, its value is increased through the contributions of fellow travellers and explorers. Please help. Please provide the inspired thoughts, the penetrating data and the wise alternatives that haven’t made it to this edition of the text. Enough needs you.