- EFA may be summarised in the following points:
- A community-curated, expert-moderated multi-layered data portal around poverty, peace, happiness, health and wealth-being. It is not truth by fiefdom nor by consensus, but open to conversation, compassionate critique and deep debate, with the project and the people willing to question its/their own conclusions.
- Not a forum for regurgitation of doctrine and dogma, but perhaps a chance to situate that into the discourse around poverty through critique, analysis and mapping. Contributed ideas and data are distilled into their essence and situated into the story. EFA makes no apologies for priveliging a full-spectrum analysis from the gross material to the subtle spiritual.
- Begins as a data portal but goes beyond. Initially a one-stop data shop on broad economics and development indicators and statistics for the general public then situating that into a sense-making story-web cohering multiple inadequacies, insufficiences, excesses and wastes, and their potential solutions, into a unifying framework.
- EFA does not prescribe but offers suggestions, possible alternatives, all the while keeping options open and inviting further suggestions.
- A centralizing hub for producers of rigorous research and generators of high-quality data so that their contribution can be situated into a bigger picture. EFA seeks to augment siloed and very detailed data by giving it upstream/downstream contextualization.
- A simplification (but not too much!) and distillation of an overwhelming and complex issue. Its not designed to bog readers down into excess technicality or theory. In contrast, it seeks to identify grand trends, overarching themes and underlying patterns, calling on only enough detail to support these. The story structure and navigation mechanisms will allow deeper investigation as well as superficial story skimming.
- Not a soapbox for any religious school of thought in order to justify poverty or asceticism. Not self-help, “think and grow rich” or any small-scale pseudo-spiritual focus to “manifest personal abundance.” While inner work is fundamental to the true abundance, EFA will take a more universal and rigorous position on such interior development. Similarly, while EFA promotes personal responsibility, is not a forum to decry any perceived laziness, victimhood or self-sabotage which may be present in personal cases.
- EFA is not “The Secret” rehashed or repackaged. It is not meant to be another new-age self-help “manifesting abundance” or “creative visualisation” doctrine. 6+ billion people can’t all drive a Ferrari. However, it is asserted that 6+ billion people can all experience all the benefits of what a Ferrari aims to achieve but ultimately falls short in.
- EFA is not meant to be an academic, theoretical treatise targeted for an “expert” audience. It is intended to be an easy-to-follow, systematic, logical progression of data and ideas accessible to most audiences (I hope). Indeed, over-intellectualisation may be a factor in poverty creation or another expression of it.
- EFA is not a megaphone for any existing economic, political or technological “solutions” or religious reckonings. It does not intend to further fuel ideological conflicts but to heal them somewhat. There is a central thesis [link] and alternative practices and systems will be presented. However, they are proposed as alternative options to be applied contextually not holy econo-political scripture.
- EFA is not an attempt to appease my guilt by telling “the poor” what they should do. I, Adam, do have my own experience of poverty, scarcity and lack, and therefore am in no position to lecture. I am a student-patient here. Rather, EFA will explore the role of guilt in creating scarcity. I shall offer some insights, of my own and of others, in treating the problem at its cause, while practicing what I preach to undo my own sense of poverty.
- EFA is not meant to be another ideology.  Its not intended to be a politico-economic system that is a panacea for the world’s problems eg communism, capitalist democracy or any other ideology. It is designed to point out that we are all looking for God It may point out the weakness, ineffectiveness and perhaps downfall of systems because of a lack of God-component, inner development. Based, on this, in part 2, it reverses the design process of world systems and resource management The point is to point out the inner seeking everyone undertakes, but undertakes in an external fashion. Thus, disappointment results.