-
- 1.) I recognize that the darkness is not in another, but in myself. This does not deny the darkened spots of sin in someone, but only that they are irrelevant to my perception. I understand that the darkness I made real in you by my reaction, originated in me, and thus I recall the projection and remove the wall I had placed between us.
	- This is a painful step, for in the instant of recognition the pain of my guilt returns to awareness. I realize (from Lesson 190) the gun pointed at me is not held by your hand, but my own. In other words, the guilt is not in you. I am the secret murderer.
- 2.) I now understand, with Jesus’ love beside me, that not only is it an illusion that you were the killer, the fact that I am a killer is an illusion, too. I made up the guilt in you because I made it up in me. Heaven’s Love was only believed to be destroyed. It truth, not one note in its joyous song of oneness was lost (T-26.V.5:4). Recognizing this happy fact completes my part in the Atonement, and the wall between my self and Self dissolves into nothingness.
- 3.) We are taught this step is not our responsibility. Once I look at the guilt I put in you and recall it, realizing it was only my dark fantasy, I have fulfilled my part. I looked at guilt without judgment, and remembered to laugh at the tiny, mad idea of separation, which allowed it to dissolve into the Holy Spirit’s gentle laughter (T-27.VIII.6:2;9:1).
	- If I become afraid of love again, I need but let the tender hand of Jesus touch another’s pain, and immediately his light of truth abolishes the darkness of illusion, as we together return to the place of truth we believed we had abandoned for the ego’s home of separation and guilt.
	- The secret walls of defense are no longer needed, and so have disappeared. In their place is the light of forgiveness, which shines the way to the home we never left. And thus it is no secret we are healed (T-27.VIII.13:9).
- ~Ken Wapnick, [[Ending Our Resistance to Love: From Dissociation to Acceptance of A Course in Miracles]] , p 137-138