alias:: Metamechanics
title:: metamechanics

-
- Meta-mechanics
- Applied metaphysics
  •	Metaphysics applied to the world
  •	Metaphysics on a lower level
  •	Abstract metaphysical concepts brought into the applied world, yet still somewhat general in scope. Open to more specification, specific application. Available to more concrete demonstration, depending on context.
  •	How to save the world, save yourself, save yourself from the world and save the world from yourself
  •	Metaphysics of larger organisations, systems
  •	Metamechanics is to metaphysics what mechanics is to physics.
  •	Question: how does mechanics relate to physics??
- Definitions:
  •	Physics:
  •	Mechanics:
  o	Mechanics (physical):
  	Automotive
  	Engineering
  o	Mechanics (symbolic, metaphor):
  •	Metaphysics:
  Metamechanics:
- Infinihedron
  •	Infinite number of sides
  •	Infinite size
  •	Logo/symbol
  o	Infinity symbols (fish-eight)
  o	Number? 2,3,4,5,6,7 ? 
  o	Probably 4, shaped as star with 8 loops
  o	Each a different colour. Colours of the rainbow?
  o	Red/rusty orange, lightish green, sky blue, violet
  o	2-D = flower; 
  o	3-D = sphere; helix?
  o	4-D animation: 
  	rotation of ‘flower petals’ around centre
  	rotation of petals relative to each other; change order of colours
  	fold over into ball from ‘centre of infinity’
  	‘Tips of infinity’ join to become new ‘centre of infinity’. Loops change colour according to new combos of colours.
  	expansion of ball
  	(How do we get into helix?)
  •	One, single infinity loop can fold in and out as a circle
  •	4-D animated modelling of movement of circle as infinity loop. Shade the locus/volume created.
  •	4 infinity loops in a linear circle. New centres & loops created.
-