DevStage:: #Level1
DevStatus:: #queue #old-notes 
Question-Problem::
Related-pubs::
Tags:: #toWrite, #[[My Books]] #myCreation #Metamechanica

- I wrote all the below quite a while ago. My thinking may have moved in since then. Regardless, this looks like it fits in with #EFA somehow. Not sure if it links in with [[TUCTUI]]
- Perhaps and update / sequel / slight pivot after EFA. A different take on the same thing ?
- A Scared Society’s Fearless Future (SSFF)
  Introductory and General Notes
	- Aka “The Abundance Paradox”
	- Shows how all our current systems rely on getting more from finite resources in order to succeed.
	  Shows how all our current systems rely on win-lose.
	  Shows how all our systems are intertwined and each reflect these concepts
	- We can’t build abundance on a win-lose system.
	- Highlights the discrepancy, disintegrity, misalignment of means and ends eg
	  An economic system which requires cheap materials and labour, more immigration etc yet is also complaining of over-population.
	- “Nature” and the “environment” can be extrapolated to include everything outside ourselves: not just eco-systems, but other groups, races, religions, countries, sexes, other individuals. (could be expanded to the human body). We see ourselves as separate from the body, that the body is separate from my thoughts and feelings towards it. Or that the hand is separate from the feet.
	- Control nature by working against it: control air temp, surface (roads & paths), animal populations (pesticides)... by slaughter, manipulation, subjugation, destruction, annihilation, suppression, oppression, ridicule, criticism, domination...
	- We seek to control through domination (subtle, or not-so-subtle, not only nature but people, situations)
	- “The emphasis of Western civilization on external life, on the domination and mastery of nature, has produced monumental technological achievements, but it has also exacted a price.”
	- Rather than “dominate” and master nature, how about we “employ” nature to work for us. Rather than dominate, how about we co-operate with nature to work with us, and us with it. We work with it rather than against it. We can’t do that at the moment because a) we see ourselves as separate from it and b)we fear it and see it as something “out to get us”. Therefore we must defend or attack, rather than co-operate.
	- We don’t respect, or understand, the messages others are trying to tell us: the body, the environment, other people.
	- We see ourselves as separate to “Nature” and separate from God. Therefore, anything that we do is “unnatural” and therefore “ungodly”, not spiritual, not right. We see ourselves as separate to God, therefore we should not “play God”. Yet we “play God” all the time.
	- Cycle of Fear
	  The structures (social, personal...all levels and modes) we’ve created and use are based on fear ultimately. Fear of God, poverty, death, hell, loneliness, insufficiency... Yet they are created to appease fear largely, appease the dark prospects of the UNKNOWN. Thus they actually maintain and promote fear.