alias::

- outward facing website to showcase projects and ideas to dream team, possible collaborators
	- a single site
	- communicate key ideas, uniqueness and difference, project briefs
	- foment further interest
- It filters, sorts and organises a bit more the underlying [[Metamechanic Mycelium]]
- platform / mechanism
	- Phase 1 - Notion
	- Phase 2 - Notion or ?
	- Phase 3 - ??
- #+BEGIN_IMPORTANT
  DO
  #+END_IMPORTANT
	- Produce and publish for my intended audience: 1st degree friends, family, collaborators, critical friends
	- Go step-by-step: publish works that are completed to the sufficient milestone eg.
		- each level of a project brief
- #+BEGIN_IMPORTANT
  Don't
  #+END_IMPORTANT
	- Publish half-baked, insufficiently prepared ideas
		- unfinished books
		- projects I don't have the bandwidth to adequately pursue at that moment
- [[Phase 1 MM]] portfolio
	- features required
	  collapsed:: true
		- collaboration
		- commentary
		- task and project management, preferable
		- backlinking
		- gallery
		- index cards, encyclopedia cards
		- table view
		- multi-view
		- publish
		- export to open-source: markdown, html, text (content is not proprietary captured)
		- templates for each entry type
			- template modifications retroactively propagate
		- image embed
			- data viz from, say, Our World in Data
			- unsplash
		- calendar
	- content
		- EFA
		- DiaGnosis
		- Inner Beginner
		- X-C Communities
	- Purpose
		- Engage assistance
		- Portfolio
		- Understand projects
		- Invite and draw collaborators and constructive criticism
- Phase 2
- Welcome. This site serves two purposes:
	- 1. Share ideas for a range of projects aimed at educating, illuminating and innovating certain issues and questions.
	- 2. Appeal for assistance in seeing these projects come to fruition.
	- This page will provide a general orientation about the projects, Adam, Metamechanics as a suite of principles, and Metamechanic as a business and role. For more information about the projects, see the relevant project pages. For more information about tools, concepts, ideas and themes of Metamechanics, please read Pillars & Principles. For answers that don’t appear here, please see the FAQ or email Adam.