see: [[FORCK]]
FORCK
Header
Logo idea
5 prong fork with FORCK lettered on each prong  Prongs of fork are candles? Religious symbols?  A fork like a Jewish candle set-up?  
Header slider
FORgiveness
Compassion
Kindness
Turning compassion into "cool"
Making forgiveness "fashionable"
Giving "street cred" to kindness
Forck You
Forck Me!
Culture change
Subtle Under-the-radar  Overcome (or undercome) resistance to 

Establishing FORCK as a concept
from F*CK you! to Forck you!
from "I don't give a f*ck" to "I will only give Forck".
see table of compare, contrast...
The Wicked Vans of subversive spiritual fashion and pop culture
a FORCK in the road
Which path will you choose?
Do you wanna spoon?
No thanks. I just wanna forck.
I just want to forck.
An alternative to F*ck you, F*ck off, F*ck it!
Don't hate the police. Forck the pork.
When you come to a FORCK in the road, take it.
Never miss an opportunity to FORCK.
I definitely give a FORCK
FORCK for peace
I never met a nun who didn't love to Forck.
The Force relies on The Forck
Jedi Knights know how to Forck
Building a better brand
An alternative brand to traditional religion
Infecting inspiration
Meme contagion. Peace pandemic.
Where's the FORCK?
The defining question one should ask of any belief system and philosophy.  
A more attractive doorway
No need to be initiated. Don't have to go on a pilgrimage. No need for special diets. Just give a FORCK.
The true basis of any effective belief system
Word play
Acronym
Poetic license
G-FORCK
God. Forgiveness. Compassion, Kindness.
Gangster. Grunge. Gothic. Gay. Grom. Gypsy. Gym jock. meeets Gratitude, Grace, Golden rule,  Godliness, Growth, Grandeur, Giving, Gaiety.
Covert, naughty Spirituality for rebellious, self-conscious and meaning-seeking youth
Oh my God!
Oh my! God?!
O, my God.
Introducing higher ideas without the baggage
A fashion brand for young adults?
Embedding FORCK in other labels?
Compare & Contrast
Fork vs Forck
A fork is a tool for eating, gardening, farming, killing.  Forck is a tool for peace 