see: [[3B]]
Behind, Beyond, Below
Header 
Header slider
Do you see daily "new"s as being recurrences of the same, albeit in a different place with different actors?
Are you tired of "new"s being just more of the same? No fresh insight? No new understanding?
Are you tired of narrow, shallow, controlled "debate" over current affairs?
Overwhelmed by the gravity, rapidity, complexity or inanity of today's issues?
Would you like to see...?
Want to be informed but sense there is more to the story?
Want a deeper analysis and broader context of the story?
Want a background of events that fertilised and triggered the story?
Want to know what might ensue?
Want to understand complex news stories
Want to be involved in telling the news that matters?
Concise with breadth and depth
Behind the edited scenes
Below the manicured manipulated surface
Beyond the ordained orchestrated future
Before the first sound bites
Information Accessibility leads to Wisdom Cultivation
Cognitive Accessibility
Accessibility to Alternatives
Accessibility to Action
Advise readers on a hierarchy of action alternatives. Avoid the "Get angry!" or the "Don't get mad; get even" approaches.
Raising the bar in news and current affairs by 
Illuminating interconnections
Digging to the foundations
Expanding the range of consideration
Disseminating hopeful futures and peaceful pathways
Uniqueness & Differentiation
Compare and Contrast Wikipedia
   Wikipedia BBB                  
Visual Knowledge
CTAs
Tackling apathy, powerlessness, stupefaction, ignorance and superficiality
Simplifying and summarizing the story without omitting or overlooking critical features and factors
Avoiding information overload and choking-on-complexity by using careful, deciduous (?) visual language layout, data visualizations and argument mapping and knowledge cartography
Bias recognition. Debate mapping. Acknowledging and analysing assumptions. Identifying internal contradictions.
Offering intelligent, discerning, concerned, time-poor and non-specialist readers and viewers better access to current affairs.
Diagramming and drawing the history, actors, ideologies, strategies, bigger forces and cycles at play in a news story.
Distilling the essential facts for quicker and easier apprehension of the news
Balanced Curation. No...
Blog comments that distract
Forum threads that diverge
Perspectives that disempower
FAQs
I have no doubt not communicated project features or overlooked important details. Please ask, offer an FAQ and I'll fill the gap!
Myth and Misconceptions
From surface stories to grand narratives
Macrohistory and Big History
Myth as grand narrative and guiding story
Myth as commonly held untruth
Philosophical Position Statement
Knowledge frameworks
CLA
Spiral Dynamics / AQAL
Knowledge hierarchy
Data
Information
Knowledge
Wisdom
Resources required
People
Invitations to Collaborate (ITC)
Related initiatives
ABC Fact Check
Vox “cards”
Infographics, assorted
more needed…