MetaMechanic.info website v1.0

-
- This is the second iteration of my emerging professional brand and identity. I need to get something up and running. Keep it simple. Get down the essentials. As yet I don't have proven expertise or qualifications. Therefore I should be wary of promoting a particular consultancy or service image. Instead, I need to promote the PROJECTS, DEVELOPING skills and EMERGING expertise. THE WEB SITE SHOULD BE AGILE. That is, it is developed, implemented and published in functional ITERATIONS. I feel like I should just put it out there. "Here I am. Take it or leave it. Here is where I want to go. If you can see potential, support me. If not, fine. If I am something or have something that speaks to you with possibility, great, please contact me. Otherwise, just keep passing by." No pretense: of knowledge, or skills, of a particular level of expertise or development. But neither hiding, hesitant, reluctant, resistant.
- MetaMechanics.info with slogans

- Harnessing Mind and healing minds
- Maximising the scope and scale of technology
- Using the greatest tool to make greater tools
- - Inspired projects to invigorate the world.
- Help me realise them.
- Where metaphor meets machine  Meta-for. Meta-4
- Slogans, Catch-phrases, Orienting points
- Inspired projects to invigorate the world. Help me realise them.
-
- Harnessing Mind and healing minds
- Maximising the scope and scale of technology
- Using the greatest tool to make greater tools
- Inspired projects to invigorate the world.
- Help me realise them.
- Where metaphor meets machine  Meta-for. Meta-4
- MetaMechanics: When your plans for world domination fail
- MetaMechanics: When your plans for world domination fail.
-
- MetaMechanics: When you plans for world domination-salvation fail
- MetaMechanics: When you plans for world domination-salvation fail.
-
- MetaMechanics: How to change the world, change your mind & change your mind about the world
- MetaMechanics: How to change the world, change your mind & change your mind about the world.
-
- Fostering Inspired Resource Utilisation
- Fostering Inspired Resource Utilisation
-
- Zengineering a better world
- Zengineering a better world.
- Manufacturing moral mechanics
- Manufacturing moral mechanics.
-
- Maturing the mechanics of morals
- Maturing the mechanics of morals.
-
- Mechanics of Mind and Morals
- Mechanics of Mind and Morals
-
- Material metaphysics
- Material metaphysics
-
- Mechanics use tools to fix machines
- Mechanics use tools to fix machines. Metamechanics use tools of mind to upgrade the mechanisms of the world
-
- Engineering evocative evolutionary effective ethics
- Engineering evocative evolutionary effective ethics
-
- The mechanics of morals and ethics
- The mechanics of morals and ethics
-
- Moral mechanics
- Moral mechanics. Ethic engineering.
-
- Applied Mechanics of Mind
- Applied Mechanics of Mind.
-
- Moving morals from mandate to mechanics
- Moving morals from mandate to mechanics.
-
- Engineering effective ethics
- Engineering effective ethics.
- Physicists, mechanics, metaphysicists, metamechanics
- Physicists generate theory in the lab. Mechanics apply theory in the workshop. Metaphysicists generate theory in the cave. Physicians apply theory in the clinic. Metaphysicians uncover theory in the mind. Metamechanics apply theory in the individual, organisational and collective consciousness.
-
- Turning metaphysics into real solutions
- Applying metaphysics to universal challenges
- Applied Mechanics of Mind.
- Mechanics use tools to fix machines. Metamechanics use tools of mind to upgrade the mechanisms of the world
- Calls to Action
- Bring your brilliance.
- Get involved.
- Assistance required
- Hearty helpings
- Connect & Connive
- Conspire to Inspire
- Donate resources
- Share your gifts
- Header Menu
- Constant header. MacroInfo. Remains in place at top
- Home
- Macrobout
- What, Who, Why, When, Where & How. Projects, People, Purpose, Process & Plan.
- Projects
- Project portfolio with slider
- FAQ
- FAQ list which is regularly updated. Organise as accordions by theme in columns or boxes.
- Blog
- Contains Metamechanics-related blog posts as well as blog pieces from/about each project eg. Enough For All, Global Effort, Inner Beginner etc.
- Wiki
- Connect
- Menu title "Connect." Page title "Connect, contact, collaborate, contribute."
- Pillars and Principles
- Ideas behind metamechanics and the projects. Fields of endeavour.
- Home pages (all conceived versions)
- Home page A
- First impression to communicate my professional presence, intentions, directions, capabilities and objectives. The basics, the essentials. Advertise projects. Attract collaborators.
- Header bar
- Metamechanic. Concieving and curating projects to invigorate the world. Bring your brilliance.
- Header bar box
- Get involved in one of the many efforts to address
- Home page Top Slider images and text copy
- The first images and text that visitors see. While I am developing expertise, this should communicate a request for help and focus on the projects, rather than an offer of service or expertise.
- Applying metaphysics to universal challenges
- Mechanics is physics applied to fix and function. Metamechanics is metaphysics applied to heal and transform. Apply now.
- Fresh approaches to current problems
- Persistent problems require a radical review. Metamechanics provides an alternative to stale thought. Get fresh.
- Society. Spirituality. Science. Service.
- Scientifically sound. Spiritually substantial. Socially sensitive. Symbiotic service. Submit solutions.
- MacroScience & MetaTechnology
- A bigger concept of science. A higher concept of technology. Metamechanics retools modern icons and leverages enlightened ideas. Tool time.
- Getting to the heart of the problem.
- Illuminating deep intentions and pondering layers of purpose. Metamechanics marries motivations, meaning, method and mission. Hearty helpings.
- Collaborate. Innovate. Illuminate. Elevate. Transmutate.
- Metamechanics recognizes the "I" and the "us" in genius. Bring your magic lamp to light up the world. Don't hesitate.
- Confounding challenges calling for your contribution
- Isolation, fragmentation, alienation are recipes for failure and waste. Your input is essential for success. Please join the effort. Please share the reward. Connect & connive.
- Critical complexities compelling collaboration
- Navigable complexity. Tranquil chaos. Healing crises. Symbiotic conflict.
- Metamechanics employs and addresses paradox, contradictions, dissonance and syzygy for inspiration and illumination. The messiness of the real world is refactored, reframed and refreshed.
- Project portfolio section
- Grid of projects. Outline and description of each project. Distinct from portfolio page.
- Global Effort
- Global Energy Futures, FOResight and Transitions
- Fresh Alternatives
- Alternative Futures, Religion, Economics, Science, History & more
- Enough For All
- So more can be more, and have more. A story about enough. An investigation of abundance. An inquiry into global and personal poverty and prosperity.
- Inner Beginner
- For those beginning the journey within
- Behind and Beyond
- Expanding, deepening, simplifiying and understanding the debate
- Australian New Energy Organisation
- The Australian chapter of a worldwide alternative current of energy research and development.
- Array Attire
- Colourful attire for the vivid professional. Using colour theory to enhance your working day. A ray of light in a bleak business day.
- FORCK
- FORgiveness. Compassion. Kindness. Not a new religion. Just a cool reminder.
- ViKInG. ViKORE.
- Visual Knowledge & Information Graphing. Need a name which highlights hierarchy, depth, prioritization etc as well as 'simplicity' ie. simplicity of knowledge apprehension
- Calls to action v1. Appeal for help.
- Blurbs, boxes, text blocks. Insert at various points in page.
- Pillars and Principles of the Projects
- Common elements to Metamechanics and the Projects
- Wicked Problems, Social Messes & Civilizational Knots
- Applying a suite of tools from the field of Futures Studies & Wicked Problems
- Deep Futures, Transformative Foresight, Parallel Panoramas
- Visual Knowledge & Information Graphics (ViKInG)
- Combining knowledge structures and knowledge apprehension strategies for knowledge discovery, creation, application, retention and reinterpretation.
- Knowledge Cartography
- Information Mapping
- Accordion Writing
- Visual Language
- Data Visualization
- Infographics
- MacroScience & MetaTechnology
- Science as method rather than knowledge base. Technology of technology, for better technology, and better use of technology. Expanded ideas.
- Holistic Health and World Well-being
- Health beyond the individual physical body. Wealth beyond the personal sphere of awareness.
- Call to action v2. Appeal for help.
- Blurbs, boxes, text blocks. Use slogans from slider.
- Footer Menu
- remains in place at bottom
- Recent posts
- Recent blog posts
- Recent comments
- Recent comments from blogs and pages
- Quickabout
- Short blurb about site
- Adam's Alter-Egos & Parallel Identities
- Duus Sensei
- TremenDuus
- Energenii
- Dr Duusicle
- Related semi-personal and other future projects
- These projects don't belong with the others. Needs to be a page/section/link to these projects. Footer?
- My Year Without Fear
- An experiment in relinquishing fear.
- QGEF
- Doctoral research in Global Energy Futures. (Can link to a dedicated research page in order to help with funding. Overlaps with Global Effort.)
- We.All.Th
- Wisdom Education. Accelerated Lifelong Learning. Thinking holistically. Real wealth comes from more people thinking wellth.
- 7P
- Pedal-paddle-pedestrian-parachute-paraski pole-pole for peace.
- Holy Hellth
- Some simple health tips and principles that get neglected.
- Home page B
- First impression to communicate my professional presence, intentions, directions, capabilities and objectives. The basics, the essentials. Advertise projects. Attract collaborators.
- Header bar
- Metamechanic. Concieving and curating projects to invigorate the world. Bring your brilliance.
- Top text box & 3/4 slider
- Home intro text
- Inspired projects to illuminate and invigorate Metamechanic is a professional identity and brand of Adam Duus. Here you can find out about some projects I am trying to develop. They are projects that I believe in. They are projects that inspire me. They are projects I believe would inspire others, and help others. These projects need your input. Discover the projects in depth. Explore some tools and principles. Read more about metamechanics. Contact me and get involved.
- 3/4 slider
- 3/4 copy of full portfolio slider
- Project portfolio section
- Grid of projects. Outline and description of each project. Distinct from portfolio page.
- Global Effort
- Global Energy Futures, FOResight and Transitions
- Fresh Alternatives
- Alternative Futures, Religion, Economics, Science, History & more
- Enough For All
- Simplifying the story of (in)sufficiency through data visualization to explore the roots of poverty; so...That more may be more and have more.
- Inner Beginner
- For those beginning the journey within
- Behind. Below. Beyond.
- Behind the facade. Below the surface. Beyond the horizon. Expanding, deepening and yet simplifiying the story for comprehension and compassion.
- DiaGnosis
- Software tools for diagramming knowledge. Incoroporating depth, hierarchy and vertical value frameworks into flatland information floods.
- Array Attire
- Colourful attire for the vivid professional. Using colour theory to enhance your working day. A refreshing ray of light in world of gloomy business fashion.
- Australian New Energy Organisation
- Antipodean chapter of a worldwide emergent free energy network.
- FORCK
- FORgiveness. Compassion. Kindness. Not a new religion. Just a cool reminder.
- MYWOF
- My Year Without Fear. An experiment in relinquishing fear.
- 7P
- Pedal-n-Paddle Pole-2-Pole for Peace
- Holy Hellth
- Keeping health simple, cheap  and effective
- Calls to action v1. Appeal for help.
- Blurbs, boxes, text blocks. Insert at various points in page.
-
- Connect. Contact. Contribute. Collaborate.  Interesting? Interested? Ideas? Insights?  Get involved. Get in touch.
- Footer Menu
- remains in place at bottom
- Recent posts
- Recent blog posts
- Recent comments
- Recent comments from blogs and pages
- Quickabout
- Short blurb about site
- Tags
- Contact
- Macrobout Page - v1.1-1
- General objectives and purpose of projects
- Assistance required
- Who
- About Adam
- Background and outside bio. A short bio, history and interesting oddities. Personal-professional timeline
- Conservative conspiracy theorist
- Roles to play
- Alter-Egos, Parallel Identities etc mention, link to page
- Adam as Metamechanic
- I don’t have the answers
- I don’t have the answers I have inspired ideas. I have hypotheses I want to test.  I have the need for others to help me realise the projects and ideas. I have the need for people to help me test the hypotheses.  I don’t have all the microscopic expert subject knowledge to perfectly articulate a for-against argument.  I do though have a sense - call it an intuition, a gut feeling, an awareness - of what needs to happen, where the story goes, when a tool or component or idea feels right. I do have an understanding of the general principles - I call them metamechanics - but not the specific form they may take on the ground, in this context or that. That is where I would like to collaborate with subject matter experts who have gone through their own journey - perhaps even the Hero’s journey.
-
- In this context, the journey might involve something like this…
- 1. Studied and steeped in the orthodoxy and tradition of their field.
- 2. Had a set of experiences which lead them to significantly the fundamental premises and assertions of the orthodoxy
- 3. Wandered in the academic/business/commercial/domestic/personal wilderness for a time, as their basic framework for making sense of the world had been irrevocably questioned and found wanting.
- 4. Undergone an epiphany or experienced an insight which brought forth a
- Adam - A Metamechanic in the making
- What am I doing? What is my role? Description of my roles and services offered. This is where I can clarify my input and what can be expected.
- The Bodhisattva vs The Bozosattva vs The Bohemian Bogansattva
- inspired by the Bozosattva and the Bodhisattva.
- Roles of a Metamechanic
- Characteristics
- Visionary
- Story-teller
- Narrator
- Bridge-builder
- Partiality Purveyor
- Is "purveyor" the right term. ie. Someone who recognises their own partiality as much as dealing with that of others.
- Provocateur
- Facilitation, mediation, resolution and transcendance
- Roles to play
- see TBX list...
- General driving questions in life
- Adam's Alter-Ego's and Parallel Identities
- About You, the potential collaborator
- Profile of collaborators
- About the Audience, Actors, Agents & the Affected
- Who are the people the projects are targeted at?
- About copy
- About
- About the site
- About the site This site is a portfolio for all professional projects and enterprises I am currently undertaking and/or plan on beginning in the near future. It also acts as a resume for potential employers, investors and collaborators.  While the projects and site may be professionally oriented, I find it difficult to separate this aspect from my personal values and life. The professional is an extension and expression of the personal.
- About Adam Duus
- About  Adam Duus Male. 35. Australian by birth and citizenship. Caucasian. Middle-class. Slowly balding. Rapidly broadening.  Aspiring citizen of the world. Spiritual seeker. Funniest man I know. Alas, not the prettiest man I know.  Educated in hard sciences. Now also embracing the softer side of theory.   Likes movies, sport, travel, chocolate. Dislikes ants in my shower and that gentle breeze which makes me realise I’m showing a plumbers’ crack.
- About the projects
- About the projects The projects may initially appear to be academic, for that is my bent, but ultimately they carry practical applications and implications. Or so they should. Or they have the possibility to if executed and viewed correctly.  Some common themes and features uniting them are intended to be: Orient for peace as the goal, as well as the path Promote alternative, controversial, expanded thinking & fresh perspectives.  Remind that context is critical. Explore deeper, non-technical & metaphysical aspects and dimensions of science, technology & resource management Focus on process (and product will take care of itself) Argue that motivation (inner content) is more important than form Imbue a belief in possibility…  Inspire creative thought Encourage participation and collaborative creation Advance spiritual practice (in general) as the means for fulfillment as well as the source of inspired, creative, win-win thinking
- Works & Service copy
- Works & Service
- Roles and tasks undertaken & sought
- Roles and tasks undertaken & sought Researcher / writer Online community manager Energy & sustainability – communications & strategy Conflict resolution Renewable energy sales and support Futures, foresight & alternative thinking – workshops and research Disruptive, provocative ideas man (see The Castle)
- Position Statement
- Position Statement Everyone has part of the answer. No one has all of the answer. The possible is only limited by imagination, will and awareness. Truth and truth-tools are consistently confused. Truth-tools are mistaken as truth and thus useful tools degenerate into divisive idols. Science, religion, economics, politics, sustainability et al are all technologies and, as such, can be used to promote peace or reinforce fear.  There is much more to the truth than we think. I/we know less than I/we think I/we do. Yet, I/we are capable of learning much more than I/we think is possible. We’re all looking for the same thing, whatever name you give it. Unfortunately, most of us are looking in the wrong place. Objectivity and neutrality do not exist. Everyone has a position and biases. Often these are implicit or unconscious. This is not a bad thing. However, failing to acknowledge this is costly.
- Mission
- Mission To bring peace, integrity, creativity and enthusiasm into all endeavours I undertake.  To play my role in healing the conflict, suffering and poverty that characterises the world.  To have fun, smile frequently, worry less and laugh more.
- Bio
- Bio Here’s a boring, basic, barebones bio. You’ll have to wait until I’m rich and famous (or insane and famous) for the juicy book.
- CV
- CV Employee CV – for potential employers. Also available on my LinkedIn profile. [link] Entrepreneurial CV – for potential collaborators and investors.
- What
- About the Projects
- Purpose of the Projects copy
- Collaborate. Educate. Illuminate. Innovate. Transmutate. Elevate.
- What is Metamechanics?
- See TBX notes for characteristics
- About this website
- What it is
- What it is not
- Not an offer of service. Not a one-man band.
- Goals, Aspirations & Visions
- Purpose of the Projects copy
- Collaborate. Educate. Illuminate. Innovate. Transmutate. Elevate.
- Why
- Why Metamechanics?
- Why not economics, "tech", politics et al? Well, MM operates on a level under all of these, and can be implemented in all these arenas. Aren't the problems intractable? Aren't their already solutions?
- Rationale and Purpose of the Projects
- Why the projects? Why the need or desire for the projects? Collaborate. Educate. Illuminate. Innovate. Transmutate. Elevate. Differentiate. Novelty. Personal interest. Why important?
- Aspirations and Visions
- What I would like to see unfold and my role in that. Goals. Objectives.
- How
- How do the projects operate?
- My inabilities, shortcomings, deficits and need to collaborate, however I retain a creative curation role. Links to 6 C's section. Emergent autonomy.
- Characteristics of a Project - the 6 C's copy
- How projects operate and are executed.
- Collaboration
- Collaboration, Co-operation, Co-ordination  Collaboration When collaborating, people work together (co-labor) on a single shared goal.  Like an orchestra which follows a script everyone has agreed upon and each musician plays their part not for its own sake but to help make something bigger.  Cooperation When cooperating, people perform together (co-operate) while working on selfish yet common goals.  The logic here is “If you help me I’ll help you” and it allows for the spontaneous kind of participation that fuels peer-to-peer systems and distributed networks. If an orchestra is the sound of collaboration, then a drum circle is the sound of cooperation.    Good article comparing and contrasting the two http://cloudhead.headmine.net/post/3279118157/cooperation-vs-collaboration  Collaboration is working together to create something new in support of a shared vision. The key points are that is is not an individual effort, something new is created, and that the glue is the shared vision.  Coordination is sharing information and resources so that each party can accomplish their part in support of a mutual objective. It is about teamwork in implementation. Not creating something new.  Cooperation is important in networks where individuals exchange relevant information and resources in support of each other’s goals, rather than a shared goal. Something new may be achieved as a result, but it arises from the individual, not from a collective team effort. http://seapointcenter.com/cooperation-teamwork-and-collaboration/
- Co-operation
- Curation
- Curation   1. a minister with pastoral responsibility.  1.select, organize, and look after the items in (a collection or exhibition). select, organize, and present (suitable content, typically for online or computational use), using professional or expert knowledge.  A curate /ˈkjʊərɨt/[1] is a person who is invested with the care or cure (cura) of souls of a parish.k (wikipedia)
- Constructive Critique
- Catharsis
- Creativity
- Collation
- Collation  1. collect and combine (texts, information, or data). compare and analyse (two or more sources of information).  2.appoint (a clergyman) to a benefice.
- Cartography
- Mapping Situating Locating Positioning Orienting Navigating
- Compass/ion
- Compassion is the compass.  All projects have the intention of making the world a better place. Cliche, yes, but true. While many projects are knowledge-driven, they arise from a place of care and compassion, in an attempt to lead us all back to a place of kindness and wisdom.
- Complementarity.
- Providing that which is missing  We don’t need more of the same. Tried and tested solutions will eventually crumble and self-destruct. They need regular reflection, renewal and refreshing. Many alternatives continue to scare rather than inspire. They need an understanding and mediating voice.  Metamechanics attempts to identify that which is lacking, and source it.  breed bridge-building, connect islands and foment
- Community
- All these projects centre on community.  A community of creators and collaborators.
- How are the projects carried out?
- What tools? Link to pillars.
- How will the projects help?
- Educate. Illuminate. Mediate. Offer genuine alternatives.
- How are solutions formed?
- What tools? Links to pillars
- How can you get involved? How can you help?
- When
- The projects and their relationship to time
- Present
- Where do the projects stand right now?
- Future
- Where are the projects going in the future? What is the role of the future in the projects.
- Trajectory
- The role of the future in the projects
- Past
- What is the history of the projects? Can refer to the history of the problems that the projects deal with, but differentiate.
- Beyond time
- Timelessness.
- Time, Timing & Timelessness copy
- The "When" of this site
- Timeline of Projects
- Establishment and order of execution.
- Futures Thinking
- Past, present, future
- History of Projects thus far.
- How have the projects evolved? What has been their pathway?
- Timelessness
- Timeless themes. Universality. Eternity.
- Macrobout Page - v1.2
- Global info about me, my mission and the site but SIMPLE.
-
- WHAT. WHO. What we do, what we hope to do; who are we, who do we hope to become
- Section 1
- Header
- Welcome. This site serves two purposes: 1. Share ideas for a range of projects aimed at educating, illuminating and innovating certain issues and questions. 2. Appeal for assistance in seeing these projects come to fruition.  This page will provide a general orientation about the projects, Adam, Metamechanics as a suite of principles, and Metamechanic as a business and role. For more information about the projects, see the relevant project pages. For more information about tools, concepts, ideas and themes of Metamechanics, please read Pillars & Principles. For answers that don’t appear here, please see the FAQ or email Adam.
- WHAT - Top slider
- Here are presented a portfolio of project ideas which are at attempt to tackle some common problems, answers some bigger questions, and offer alternatives to current inferior or ineffective solutions.  They are under development. They need help. I need help. The projects tend to
- Projects that illuminate, invigorate, elevate and radiate
- The goal is prosperity, in its biggest sense. The path is peace, in its deepest sense.   Metamechanic projects aim high, look long, and run deep, promoting tools and ideas that re-imagine the world's unfulfilling orthodoxy.   Load up. Take aim.
- Adventures in effective alternatives.
- Metamechanic projects aim to distill, discover, distinguish and distribute genuine alternatives. Different sides of the same coin have no more purchasing power. New currencies are needed. Make an offer.
- Getting to the heart of the problem.
- Illuminating deep factors and uncovering layers of function. Metamechanic endeavours examine motivation, meaning, method and mechanism, leading ultimately to a coherent, clear message of hope. Hearty helpings.
- Fresh approaches to current problems
- Persistent problems require a radical review. Metamechanic projects provide an alternative to stale thought.  Metamechanic projects question dominant assertions, prevailing assumptions, and the efficacy of orthodox approaches. Get fresh.
- Stimulating stagnation. Provoking progress
- Is the world going around in circles? On an axis of evil? Or an orbit of insanity? Or a scenic ascent to the summit? Metamechanics projects review the trails, question the trajectory, visualise new tracks and navigate transitions. Poke. Provoke.
- Society. Spirituality. Science. Service.
- Scientifically sound. Spiritually substantial. Socially sensitive. Symbiotic service.  Metamechanic projects rely on cultivating communities of critical, compassionate thinkers to harvest collective IQ, EQ & SQ. Submit solutions.
- Metamechanic(s)
- My inabilities, shortcomings, deficits and need to collaborate, however I retain a creative curation role. Links to 6 C's section. Emergent autonomy.
- A brand
- Adam's professional identity
- Adam - A Metamechanic in the making
- Noonaut. Zengineer. Inner-vator Cultivating skills and expertise through the development of novel projects.  Alter-Egos, Parallel Identities etc mention, link to page
- Noospheric navigator
- Where metaphor meets machines
- Alter-Egos, Parallel Identities etc mention, link to page
- A role
- My foreseen role in the projects is one of creator and curator, rather than owner and sole-operator.
- Alternatives analyst and advocate
- Co-conspirator rather than consultant.
- Narrator and navigator
- Mapper rather than master
- Labyrinth of illusory pathways Maze of despair and destruction
- Bridge-builder. Translator
- Provocateur, not preacher
- I don’t have answers. I think I might have some good ideas, which others may agree with, benefit from, and improve upon. In fact, they rely on testing and questioning by others. Please. I hope to provoke thought and action, rather than preach any concrete course.
- A practitioner
- of metamechanical principles and tools
- Inner-vator
- My own inner journey not separate from the projects, the problems, and the solutions.
- Abstractionist
- Partiality Purveyor
- Is "purveyor" the right term. ie. Someone who recognises their own partiality as much as dealing with that of others.
- Inquisitor of the religion of science, and idols of technology
- Futures tools
- Wicked Problems
- Knowledge Geometry
- Aspirations and Visions
- Professional Metamechanic
- I want this to be my full-time gig. Its the next chapter in the epic.
- Help
- Offer insights. Alleviate suffering. Promote peace and prosperity.
- Thriving, robust organisations. Vital, organic networks.
- Each project will be an entity unto itself, bigger than any one person, serving the multitudes. A baby conceived, and released to the community to nurture it and develop it. Resilient organisations and vital communities which illuminate and elevate.
- I want the products!
- Answers to some big questions. Software to map arguments and situate knowledge. Business attire with an uplifting, cheeky edge. An epic physical adventure. I want all this stuff. Maybe others would too. I can’t do it alone, and it wouldn’t be as good anyway.
- Answer questions
- I’m curious. I wonder. I want to know some stuff! I need other people to teach me, and the world, with their expertise and resources.
- Ideas worth investigating. Questions worth questioning. A journey worth joining.
- These projects need help: investments of expertise, insight, funding, passion, and compassion. Perhaps they are worthy of you? Learn more.
- Financial
- Technical
- Business & Marketing
- Subject specific
- Core Characteristics of a Project - the 8 C's copy
- How projects operate and are executed.
- Collation
- Collation  1. collect and combine (texts, information, or data). compare and analyse (two or more sources of information).  2.appoint (a clergyman) to a benefice.
- Curation
- Curation   1. a minister with pastoral responsibility.  1.select, organize, and look after the items in (a collection or exhibition). select, organize, and present (suitable content, typically for online or computational use), using professional or expert knowledge.  A curate /ˈkjʊərɨt/[1] is a person who is invested with the care or cure (cura) of souls of a parish.k (wikipedia)
- Cartography
- Mapping Situating Locating Positioning Orienting Navigating
- Complementarity.
- Providing that which is missing  We don’t need more of the same. Tried and tested solutions will eventually crumble and self-destruct. They need regular reflection, renewal and refreshing. Many alternatives continue to scare rather than inspire. They need an understanding and mediating voice.  Metamechanics attempts to identify that which is lacking, and source it.  breed bridge-building, connect islands and foment
- Collaboration
- Collaboration, Co-operation, Co-ordination  Collaboration When collaborating, people work together (co-labor) on a single shared goal.  Like an orchestra which follows a script everyone has agreed upon and each musician plays their part not for its own sake but to help make something bigger.  Cooperation When cooperating, people perform together (co-operate) while working on selfish yet common goals.  The logic here is “If you help me I’ll help you” and it allows for the spontaneous kind of participation that fuels peer-to-peer systems and distributed networks. If an orchestra is the sound of collaboration, then a drum circle is the sound of cooperation.    Good article comparing and contrasting the two http://cloudhead.headmine.net/post/3279118157/cooperation-vs-collaboration  Collaboration is working together to create something new in support of a shared vision. The key points are that is is not an individual effort, something new is created, and that the glue is the shared vision.  Coordination is sharing information and resources so that each party can accomplish their part in support of a mutual objective. It is about teamwork in implementation. Not creating something new.  Cooperation is important in networks where individuals exchange relevant information and resources in support of each other’s goals, rather than a shared goal. Something new may be achieved as a result, but it arises from the individual, not from a collective team effort. http://seapointcenter.com/cooperation-teamwork-and-collaboration/
- Community
- All these projects centre on community.  A community of creators and collaborators.  Emergent insight and wisdom
- Compass/ion
- Compassion is the compass.  All projects have the intention of making the world a better place. Cliche, yes, but true. While many projects are knowledge-driven, they arise from a place of care and compassion, in an attempt to lead us all back to a place of kindness and wisdom.
- Catharsis
- Co-operation
- Constructive Critique
- Creativity
- An array of lenses
- Kaleidoscope
- Colours, richness, the full spectrum, changing patterns, dazzling arrays, fractals, chaos
- Microscope
- If the devil is in the detail, its not a detail
- Periscope
- Over obstacles and boundaries, above limits and around
- Telescope
- Far, ahead, distant, destinations, horizons, looming
- Endoscope
- Inspecting interiors, identifying inflammation and infection
- Oscilloscope
- Cycles, waves, signals, currents
- Gyroscope
- Balance. Direction. Orientation. Momentum
- Stethoscope
- Rhythm, pulse, flow, health
- Horoscope
- Archetypes, deep myths, guiding narratives, universal stories, foresight, parascience
- Individual expertise. Collective intelligence. Collaborative insight. Emergent wisdom.
- Metamechanics recognizes the "I" and the "us" in genius. Projects aim to tap latent collective wisdom by leveraging collaborative insight and individual expertise. Bring your magic lamp to light up the world. Don't hesitate.
- A profile of collaborator and conspirators
- CV
- CV Employee CV – for potential employers. Also available on my LinkedIn profile. [link] Entrepreneurial CV – for potential collaborators and investors.
- Position Statement
- Position Statement Everyone has part of the answer. No one has all of the answer. No one has none of the answer. The possible is only limited by imagination, will and awareness. Truth and truth-tools are consistently confused. Truth-tools are mistaken as truth and thus useful tools degenerate into divisive idols. Science, religion, economics, politics, sustainability et al are all technologies and, as such, can be used to promote peace or reinforce fear.  There is much more to the truth than we think. I/we know less than I/we think I/we do. Yet, I/we are capable of learning much more than I/we think is possible. We’re all looking for the same thing, whatever name you give it. Unfortunately, most of us are looking in the wrong place. Objectivity and neutrality do not exist. Everyone has a position and biases. Often these are implicit or unconscious. This is not a bad thing. However, failing to acknowledge this is costly.
- Projects page
- Dedicated solely to the projects. Includes portfolio. No slider. Short intro at top.
-
- These projects below are early-stage initiatives requiring funding, skills, expertise, mentorship, resources and support. Please investigate further. If what you read interests you, please consider getting involved to make their potential a reality.
- Header bar
- Project Portfolio. Inspired initiatives to invigorate the world. Bring your brilliance.
- Header slider
- One slide for each project
- Enough For All
- Addressing the question "Is there enough for all?". So that more may be more and have more.
- Global Effort
- Global Energy Futures, Foresight and Transitions.
- Fresh Alternatives
- Alternative Futures Religion Economics Science History & more...
- Diagnosis
- Diagramming knowledge and its inter-relationships. Tools & applications.
- Inner Beginner
- For those setting out on the journey within.
- Array Attire
- Brining a ray of light to depressing and gloomy business fashion
- ANEO
- Australian New Energy Organisation
- Behind, Beneath, Beyond
- Deconstructing, distilling and diagramming the debate
- ForCK
- FORgiveness. Compassion. Kindness. An alternative F-You!
- Project Portfolio grid
- 3 x 3 or 4 x 3 grid of projects
- Objectives. Purpose. Quandaries. Rationale.
- Purpose of the Projects
- Why the projects? Why the need or desire for the projects?
- Aspirations and Visions
- What I would like to see unfold and my role in that. Goals. Objectives.
- The People in the Projects
- Page discussing WHO is involved.
- About Adam - A Metamechanic in the making
- A short bio, history and interesting oddities
- About the Audience, Actors & Agents
- Who are the people the projects are targeted at?
- About You, the potential collaborator
- Profile of collaborators
- Individual projects pages