About the author – Adam Duus Before we get into the guts, I better introduus myself. My name is Adam Duus. I am a caucasian male, born and raised in affluent middle-class Australia. I have the fortune of a loving, caring family as well as a private school and university education. I’ve had opportunities for many varieties of experience. I acknowledge that I am part of a priveliged minority. While I have travelled extensively across the world, and lived in developing countries such as South Africa and Colombia, I do not pretend to understand the extreme conditions of scarcity and conflict that much of the world experiences as the everyday norm. I am deeply moved by images and stories of those who endure conditions that we all hope to put an end to but I can’t say that I fully appreciate them. I do have my own sense of poverty and scarcity, however, which I believe is something everyone carries in their own form, to varying degrees. For me, it is not enough time, not enough money, not enough answers, not good looking enough (even though I’m hot), not funny enough (even though I’m hilarious) etc etc.  I am undertaking my own journey in dealing with this. Undertaking this project is one aspect of that. Yet, it is my feeling that there are universal themes in this issue with many forms of expression available to suit the context. In my attempt to seek love and peace, if I can offer love and peace to others, and the wisdom that naturally comes with that, then I am that much closer to the Source of that love and peace. Thus is the circle closed and arms, hearts and minds opened. To reiterate earlier comments, this book is thus not a one-way sermon on what the poor & disadvantaged should do – what YOU or THEY should do. Rather, it is An investigation into the creation and maintenance of my own sense of poverty and scarcity, at an individual level and in my world (which includes you) An offering of resulting insights into the issue so as to be able to discover, invent and execute effective solutions to the issue, in all its forms.