Notes to the reader Cover-to-cover for the first read. For first time readers, please read the book in order. The structure of the book is designed to produce a systematic uncovering of the core concepts of poverty and scarcity. The reader may not get full benefit by selecting sections at random until after the first reading. By and large, we all begin by satisfying physical survival requirements and extending from there, while food scarcity and famine is our dominant image of poverty. As such, the book and its logical argument is structured this way. In subsequent readings, please feel free to dip in to sections for data and quotes, keeping in mind the data must be taken in context to be really useful. Reference summaries. However, for regular reference, as well as for the impatient, there are brief summary points at the end of each section which distill the essence of the argument up to that point. Developmental structure. Readers may notice the structure could be said to mirror developmental models such as Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, the Chakra system or Spiral Dynamics. This is incidental and none are strictly adhered to or reflected in the structure.  Patterns and trends. Please approach this book forgivingly. It is intended to identify patterns, trends and their consequences rather than be painstakingly accurate to the letter. Where, however, in your opinion the details affect the pattern or overall argument, please contact me with your suggestion. Complexity and feedback. As an example of the previous point, it is understood that all levels of scarcity-abundance considered in the book are present in every other level and feedback on each other. For example, food production involves direct technology, auxillary technology, education, administration, policy, planning and vision and other inputs in addition to natural resources. Each affects each other in a complex, interactive feedback loop rather than in a linear cause-effect mechanism. However, the linear consideration of these factors is worthwhile and valid in that it can eliminate a factor as the cause of poverty, and therefore the basis of a solution, or at least clarify its role. Data. All efforts are made to source the most reliable and recent data, keeping mind general trends and overlooking short-term radar blips. Some major short term blips are mentioned. Data is not available at all scales in all category-levels. I do not think this dilutes or discredits the message of the book. Data is presented at a global scale with various regions and nations represented to account for variations in natural resource endowment, culture, political system etc. Including data for every country would be too time-consuming, unworkable and unnecessary for this book. However, I would ideally love to attain this level of detail. I appeal to all regional and subject specialists to assist in this. Anger & irritation. If anything in this book upsets you, makes you angry, detracts from your peace of mind….well, you may very well be proving the point of the book. Please forgive me when this happens, consider contacting me with your inspired ideas and see the last point in this list. Lastly, and most importantly, please approach this book with a sense of humour. To borrow from Oscar Wilde, this book is too important to be taken seriously. Humour is a precious commodity in infinite supply and the best gift to a world of pain and anguish. That way we’ll all enjoy the book more as well as our joined path in alleviating poverty and ensuring enough for all.  Happy reading. Bless. 