Information gluttony. Wisdom malnutrition
Science for a better science. Technology for better technology
Turning metaphysics into real solutions
Applying metaphysics to universal challenges
Mechanics is physics applied to fix and function.
Metamechanics is metaphysics applied to heal and transform.


Fresh approaches to current problems
Persistent problems require a radical review. Metamechanics provides an alternative to stale thought.

Getting to the heart of the problem.
Illuminating deep intentions and pondering layers of purpose. Metamechanics marries motivations, meaning, method and mission.

Collaborative problems calling for your contribution
Isolation, fragmentation, alienation. Recipes for failure and waste. Your input is essential for success. Please join the effort. Please share the reward.


When your world needs a tune-up
When your world needs a tune-up
Applied Mechanics of Mind.
getting under the hood/bonnet of the world/life
Turning metaphysics into results
Mind Engineering
Mechanics of the Mind
Applied metaphysics for a better world
Applied metaphysics for a better world
Moral mechanics
Moving morals from mandate to mechanics.
Moral mechanics. Engeineering ethics.
Mechanics of morals. Engineering ethics.
MacroScience and MetaTechnology
A bigger concept of science. A higher concept of technology. Metamechanics retools modern icons and leverages enlightened ideas.


Zengineering a better world. 
Fostering Inspired Resource Utilization
Metaphysicists generate theory in the lab.
Metaphysicians generate theory in the clinic.
Metamechanics apply theory in the individual, organisational and collective mind
The mechanics of morals and ethics
Meaningful metaphysics
Effective ethics
Engineering effective ethics.
Manufacturing moral mechanics.
Maturing the mechanics of morals. 
Mechanics of Mind and Morals
Material metaphysics
Mechanics use tools to fix machines.
Metamechanics use tools of mind to upgrade the mechanisms of the world
Society. Spirituality. Science. Service.
Scientifically sound. Spiritually substantial. Socially sensitive. Symbiotic service.



Characterizing summaries and slogans for website
 Here are presented a portfolio of project ideas which are at attempt to tackle some common problems, answers some bigger questions, and offer alternatives to current inferior or ineffective solutions.  They are under development. They need help. I need help. The projects tend to 
1.Deprival  2. Survival  3.Thrival.
Applying metaphysics to universal challenges
Mechanics is physics applied to fix and function. 
Metamechanics is metaphysics applied to heal and transform. Apply now.
Bridge, ladder, compass, torch.
Metamechanic projects are unashamedly biased towards peace and prosperity, growth, resolution of conflicting futures
Collaborate. Innovate. Illuminate. Elevate. Transmutate.
 Metamechanics recognizes the "I" and the "us" in genius. Bring your magic lamp to light up the world. Don't hesitate. 
Common problems. Uncommon approaches. Reluctant solutions.
 Metamechanic projects recognise there are myriad existing and historical attempts to address common problems. 
Community created. Curated. Community used.
Cultivating communities to harvest world wellbeing.
Developing a suite of initiatives that invoke peace and inspire prosperity.
 The goal is prosperity, in its biggest sense. The path is peace, in its deepest sense. Metamechanic projects aim high, look long, and run deep. Burn bright. Load up. Take aim.
Distilling, discovering, developing and distributing genuine alternatives.
 
Handling complexity. Harmonizing chaos. Healing crises.
Metamechanics takes the messiness of the world, refactors, reframes and refreshes for rejuvenation.
Holistic health and world well-being.
Metamechanic projects aspire to health beyond the individual physical body. Wealth beyond the personal pocket.
Ideas worth investigating. A journey worth joining.
 These projects need help: investments of expertise, insight, funding, passion, and compassion. Perhaps they are worthy of you?
Identify. Classify. Simplify. Clarify. Unify. Fortify.
Identifying underlying mechanisms to recalcitrant conditions.
Metamechanic projects employ
Inner-vation for innovation.
Modern maladies. Ancient anxieties. Perennial perplexities.
 Metamechanics projects look at modern expressions of interminable turmoil. 
Persistent problems. Question the repetition.
Is evolution disguised devolution? Or revolution? Today’s solution, tomorrow’s satan? If you agree, drag your knuckles or spin on your chair, metamechanic projects could benefit from your offerings. 
Projects that illuminate, invigorate, resonate and elevate
 Metamechanic projects attempt to identify underlying forces and hidden factors.
Promoting tools and ideas that re-imagine the world's unfulfilling orthodoxy.
 Metamechanic projects question dominant assertions and hidden assumptions about the status quo and probable pathways, but also about the efficacy of mainstream solutions.
Questioning change. Changing the question.
 So many change-makers. So few make change. What is change? What is real change? What is real? Help these projects not add to the list of samsaric solutions.
Questioning some of the world's answers and approaches to global challenges.
 Is the world going around in circles? On an axis of evil? Or an orbit of insanity? Or a scenic ascent to the summit? Metamechanics projects review the trails, question the trajectories, visualise new tracks and navigate transitions.
Resolve to solve. Evolve to dissolve.
  Involve. Absolve. Dissolve.
Rethinking some of the world's answers and approaches to global challenges.
Is the world going around in circles? On an axis of evil? Or an orbit of insanity? Or a scenic ascent to the summit? Metamechanics projects review the trails, question the trajectory, visualise new tracks and navigate transitions.
Universal challenges. Fundamental fulcra.
Metamechanics projects attempt to leverage the points of maximum return for as many global symptoms as possible. Differentiating relations, causations, correlations and randomisations. 
When you realise your "choices" are two sides of the same coin, its time to stop gambling. copy