We’re all really seeking security and satisfaction.
The Infinite Within.   Call it by whatever name you like God, Allah, Jehovah, Nirvana, Rama-Brahma-Vishnu, Cosmic Consciousness, The Light, Spirit…it goes by many names. Alternatively, others call it truth, love, reason, the theory of everything, the unified field theory, the meta-theory, the lottery,
Whatever you call It though, we are all seeking for that which provides purpose and creates meaning in our lives. However you think of It, we are all seeking for that feeling of love, liberation, security, understanding and satisfaction. That is universal.  Yet you need only read or watch the daily news to realise that we don’t seem to be terribly successful in that quest. You probably only need look as far as your own life to see that sense of security and fulfillment is not there. At least not all the time.  What we can see, if we are honest with ourselves, is a world of scarcity and conflict. It may the lack of food or merely a lack of confidence. It may be conflict between ethnic groups or it may be conflict between two courses of action. It may be external, physical scarcity such as not enough money or it may be the inner emptiness which leads to substance abuse and addiction.   This scarcity and lack, too, is universal, not only in place/space but in time. History is the story of the conquest for more at the expense of others, whether that ‘other’ be other tribes, creeds, races, religious adherents, economic classes, species….basically anyone that is not ‘me’.   This has all been an empty search for love, peace, joy, satisfaction and whatever feel-good, religious or quasi-spiritual term you want to give It. And yet an examination of the present state of affairs shows our efforts have been far from effective.  So…. we’re all looking for peace and true prosperity. And yet very few of us, if any, seem to be finding it.  The empty search goes on…