alias:: EFA
tags:: [[X-C Communities]] , #[[my project]] #toProcess
see-also:: #[[EFA dashboard]]
public:: true

-
- # [About EFA]([[EFA Overview & Outline]])
  collapsed:: true
	- ## [[About EFA - quick version]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[About EFA - quick version]]}}
	- ## [[Rationale for EFA]]
	- ## [[Purpose, Aims & Objectives of EFA]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[Purpose, Aims & Objectives of EFA]]}}
	- ## [[What EFA is and is NOT]]
	  collapsed:: true
	  Clarifying some possible misconceptions and preconceptions
		- {{embed [[What EFA is and is NOT]]}}
		- ### [[Uniqueness and Novelty of EFA]] 
		  Why EFA exists and how it is valuable
	- ## [[Driving Questions of EFA]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{embed [[Driving Questions of EFA]]}}
	- ## [[Postulates, premises, and positions of EFA]]
	  What are the philosophical underpinnings? Hypotheses, intuitions, biases?
	- ## Enough Navigation - [[EFA structure, process & platform]]
	  collapsed:: true
	  How to use this site.
	  How the content is structured technically and philosophically.
		- EFA is structured nominally as The Story of Enough, broadly following a framework like Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs, the Chakra model, or Claire Graves’ Spiral Dynamics model. You can approach it in this order, or you can meander as you please. In time, there will be added functionality to adopt different navigation perspectives: Story view, Data view, Map view.
		- Perspectives on the Story
		  collapsed:: true
			- In time it is anticipated to be able to approach the EFA investigation into (in)sufficiency in four complementary modes: Post view, Data view, Story view and Map view.
			- Data view
			  collapsed:: true
				- In Search graphs and charts on sufficiency and the state of the world. View data sets on particular topics of importance. Focus on argument maps and debate graphs on issues of interest. Digest the details of one data visualization in isolation, under the microscope.
			- Map view
				- Geo-map view
					- Visualize the location of your reading and reasoning. Situate the data in the global story of sufficiency. Identify your level of geographical or topical analysis, the depth of causation, the logic paths available. See the interconnections.
				- Knowledge map view
					- Argument-Issue-Debate (AID) view
					- Argument visualizations
					- Issue maps
					- Debate graphs
					-
			- Story view
			  collapsed:: true
				- Navigate the story of enough in a linear or non-linear path. Starting with data visualizations of basic needs, the story winds through terrain of increasing granularity and causation. At each node, take a different fork for the underlying causative mechanism or assumption.
			- Topic view
			  collapsed:: true
				- eg. Food.
				- All data and articles related to Food
		- Or, you could get a better feel by diving straight into some data. You could start with a general, broad data on the current state of the world, or of near-term forecasts. Alternatively, you could get more specific, starting with data on basic necessities or particular topics.
		- ## [[Outline of The Story of Enough]]
	-
- # [Story View]([[The Story of Enough]])
  A text-graphic hybrid story structure following pathways of your choosing. The over-arching story begins from basic material needs, proceeds "up and in" to the immaterial, intangible, ineffable. It then re-traces the ladder back down again but with the insights learned.
- # [Data View]([[Enough For All - Data Lens]])
  collapsed:: true
  Search for graphs, charts and infographics on an entity of your choice: topics, organizations, regions, visualisation type, to name a few.
	- [[Enough For All - Data Lens]]
	- To be a searchable, filterable database view with contribution form for missing entries (data sets, topics)
- # [Issues View]([[EFA Issues Lens]])
  collapsed:: true
  Data visualizations, commentary and resources collated around particular topics of enoughness.
	- Essays on blogs around particular issues, always adhering to EFA's practice and philosophy of situating within the Grand Story
- # [EFA Blog]([[Enough For All - Blog]])
- # [Get Involved]([[EFA X-C Community]])
  Participate in the creation and evolution of EFA, once-off or recurring. Share your expertise and enthusiasm.
-
- [[EFA hyperbook]]
- [[EFA dashboard]]
-
-