alias:: EFA position statement
tags:: position

- At this early outset, it might be useful to summarise some positions and stances EFA takes.
  collapsed:: true
	- There are multiple levels of reality. This is reflected in the frameworks used for analysis as well as to structure the arguments, an example being [[Maslow's hierarchy of needs]]. The material is only the most basic and obvious level. Addressing the problem of scarcity and poverty requires traversing all levels and integrating all aspects and dimensions.
	- Contributors and authors are not preaching, or even instructing; at least not consciously. Its not our place. In writing about poverty, I am writing to myself. I am mindful of my own inner and outer poverty. In researching scarcity, authors (should) have their own personal inadequacies and frailties in mind as well. Only those with a truly perfect sense of complete abundance (ie. no one) can begin to instruct reflexively. My lack of peace at some scarcity or gluttony in the world is as much a topic of investigation as the worldly problem.
	- Intentional, transparent bias. 
	  EFA takes the view that no one is impartial, no matter what they self-proclaim. There is always an inherent, perhaps unconscious bias. The key is to make this bias apparent, to recognise assumptions and implicit philosophical and metaphysical structures. Furthermore, proclaimed biases may not match demonstrated biases. The key is to reconcile the dissonance. EFA will bias itself towards certain frameworks of understanding, worldviews, modes of communication and presentation. This may not gel with some readers. Such readers are invited to offer their perspective with the view that it may augment EFA. Such contributions will ideally be mapped into the debate around topics. However, it may not be adopted as a guiding ideal.
	- Technology definitely plays a role, and it will be discussed extensively. But what is “technology”? A common 21st century view has emphasised computer-oriented tools: code, processors, apps, AI, data etc. Since the Industrial Revolution we have often seen technology as machines, devices, engines, chemicals, medicines etc. An older view might say wheels, screws, levers, planes. But what about such things as governance and legal codes, psychological methods, economic systems, agricultural practices and even science, religion and language itself? EFA takes the view that all of this, and more, is technology. Any tool, any instrument, any vehicle, any practice which produces an outcome or serves a purpose - all play a role. Technology development and uptake should continue, but wisely. And perhaps EFA can contribute to that conversation as well.
- Hypotheses, Intuitions and Educated Guesses - Overview
  Philosophy, Hypotheses, Intuitions, Central Message and Biases of EFA
	- Enough For All starts out with some basic hypotheses and intuitions about the Story of Sufficiency which serve as ‘initial responses’ to the Driving Questions which require further exploration and elaboration. These ideas will be updated, in the pro and/or con, as the research project unfold. These ideas include:
		- EFA does hypothesize that there is actually enough for all. That is, there is enough of everything for everyone all the time, within some limits of a material universe. There is enough for everyone’s need, not everyone’s greed. (Gandhi.)
		- We are all poor. We are all addicts. We are all wealthy. We are all healers. We are all looking for something ‘more’ but we look in the wrong place and keep looking in the wrong place. We create poverty out of abundance in this way. Searching in the right place, in the right way at the right time can alleviate this.
		- Solutions exist already. Many are used but often beyond their scope of usefulness. Many are rejected, for various reasons. Many are repressed. Many are resisted. Even better solutions are inevitable but will inevitably be inappropriately used, refused and repressed for the same reasons as today. They often exist as outside popular culture, on the edge of educated orthodoxy, in the waste bin of ancient wisdom, on the fringe of dominant discourse or the too-hard basket of denial and repression.
		- Existing, standard responses do definitely play a role. The key is in recognising when, where, how and how far. They are often used beyond this as a panacaea to only entrench lack.
		- Levels of confusion of Problems with Symptoms. What we call “problems” can be seen as problems in themselves, but also as symptoms of a deeper problem which, like a hydra, produces multiple problematic “heads.” A deeper source point can be targeted to greater effect. Effective solutions most often address multiple layers of this problem-solution categorization confusion. Insufficiency arises from confusing levels of problem-solution.
		- We waste and we don’t care. Structures are designed to facilitate this (eg. cheap oil, easily defrauded welfare systems). Such waste penalizes not only through the waste itself but furthermore through lost, ‘higher and wider’ opportunities. Powerful resources are undervalued and discarded. Hollow resources are overemphasised.
		- Complexity requires simplification. This exercise is complex. It is the wickedest of wicked problems. Complexity is not solved by added complexity, rather by suitable simplification and reframing. Complexity can mask the true problems and obscure effective solutions.
		- There is a need for this service. In a truly globalised interconnected faster society, discussions around poverty are often complex, opaque, shallow and narrow. Yet the need for effective solutions are as great as ever. More people are increasingly aware and concerned and capable of learning and acting yet stand hamstrung by complexity-induced helplessness and confusion.