alias:: EFAstory

- #EFA
- # Unsituated old text
	- Enough For All: so that more may be more and have more.
	- Stitching together the story of sufficiency
	  collapsed:: true
		- Not new data. Not a truly original story.  Enough For All pieces together disparate data from numerous reliable, authoritative organisations into a message of insight and hope: There is enough for all. Everyone can have enough.  EFA aims to provide a novel, simple, engaging and comprehensive way of understanding a complex, compelling tale: the how much and how of enough.
	- Overwhelming issues made visible, manageable and hopeful.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Most of us feel overwhelmed by the complexity of the world and hopeless when we look at the scale of suffering and conflict. Many of us choose not to look for this reason.  Enough For All seeks to not only present data in a way that is digestible, but offer hope and mechanisms for alleviating suffering, resolving conflict and addressing poverties and inequalities.
	- The story of the world, simplified and visualised
	  collapsed:: true
		- The story of the world is the story of “more”. Money, power, security, food, control, time…and the search never ends. Much data on this already exists. Its a question of making sense of it.  Enough For All presents the data visually, drawing simple conclusions with logical consequences and deduction. The result:  a labyrinth of scarcity translated into an epic of enoughness.
	- Illuminating the issue of enough
	  collapsed:: true
		- Why do some not have enough? What do they not have enough of? Are the reasons the experts give really true? Is there actually enough? What does the data say? Is the data biased? Whose data? What assumptions are made?  Is there enough now? Was there enough in the past? Has there always been enough? Do forecasts predict enough? Why should we believe them? Why not believe them?  If there is enough, why don’t some have enough? What are the barriers and limiting mechanisms in play? Who or what erects those barriers and builds those mechanisms?  If there is not enough, could there be enough for all? What could be some of those tools for enough for all? Are common responses really effective? Are they true? What do the solutions hinge on for success?  Does everyone having enough mean some can’t have too much? Or will everyone having enough actually mean more could have more?
	- Inspired Resource Utilization
	  collapsed:: true
		- Enough For All seeks to identify proposals that address multiple layers of the sufficiency problem.  Perhaps there are already some systems and models out there which can do a better job of generating, supplying and distributing enough for all…  Why are they not in place?  Who says they will, or won’t, work?  EFA will explore the tried and tested, and present some Fresh Alternatives.
	- Why do some not have enough?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Why do some go hungry, malnourished, impoverished? Why are some homeless, landless and materially insecure? Why are some unhappy, unhealthy, unhelpful?  Have you ever asked yourself these questions? Have you ever wondered if there is more to the story than the answers you are given?  Enough For All seeks to address these questions and tell the story of sufficiency by starting with the basics, visualising the data, and using ‘warm logic’.
	- Visualizing The Story of the World
	  collapsed:: true
		- EFA sets out to piece together quality data and dedicated research into the story of enough  [Need diagram of story map…]
	- Have you ever wondered why some don't have enough?
	  collapsed:: true
		- I mean…really wondered?  Is there enough?  [Text boxes - images] ??  Enough stuff…food, water, land, shelter, clothing… Enough technology…energy, money, transport, medicine… Enough intangibles…happiness, health, love, peace…  [Perhaps use slider ‘rating’ bars. Set to 100%]  This was the inspiration for the project. It lead to the question, “Is there actually enough for everyone? That would be interesting to know. And if not, could there be, if we used alternative systems?”
	- Not new data. Not an original story. A novel, simple and comprehensive way of understanding a complex, compelling story.
	- Cohering disparate data into a message of insight and hope
	- Community-curated multi-layered data portal
	  collapsed:: true
		- Collation and Curation
			- Not a forum for repetition or rant. Contributed ideas and data are distilled into their essence and situated into the story. Not truth by consensus, but open to conversation, critique and debate.
			- Community
				- The story of the world requires the world to write it. Country analysts, issue specialists, topic experts all required. Data freaks, infographics geeks, and constructive critiques. We need you. UN, NGOs, EDUs, NPOs, VIPs, NFIs… all have a role to play.
			- Beyond a Data portal
				- Easy access to essential data. Starting hub for diverse information  Links to specialist organisations Multi-scale. Multi-scope. Search. Filter. Refine. Share.    Penetrate the problem. Seek and see solutions. Don’t drown in data.
	- Web platform for a deep, data-driven narrative
	  collapsed:: true
		- The base of Enough For All is a novel website piecing disparate data into a coherent narrative. It will allow user-driven plot pathways maintaining global meaning and connection between data and layers. The story structure allows deeper investigation as well as superficial story skimming. Enough For All needs web developers, data scientists, database programmers and content contributors to create this site.
	- Reviewing conventional wisdom
	  collapsed:: true
		- Insufficiency has always existed, despite/because of the efforts of policy implementers. Either: 1. You believe it always will continue to exist, regardless. This site is not for you. Q 2. Historical efforts have typically fallen short because of
	- Simplifying complexity...just enough, not too much
	  collapsed:: true
		- Reframing the problem in order to see effective solutions  The answer to complexity is not necessarily greater complexity.
	- Making sense of immense, disparate data through a grand, visual, interactive narrative.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Targeting effective triggers and solutions through a logical sequence of (in)sufficiency investigation
		- The Enough For All story structure follows a logical if-then questioning route to uncover problems, data, answers and supposed answers.  This way readers can discover  1. Issues and data,   2. attempts at addressing the issue,   3. assumptions and limitations in the data,   4. the layers and perspectives on the issue and its solutions  5. Linkages between complex issues and attempted solutions, and  6. Target trigger points for effective action  An important part of Enough For All is that readers can offer and inject insights and data into the pathway-network, keeping in mind that entry will be scrutinised by the community for novelty, uniqueness, overlap, pre-existence etc. The success of Enough For All relies on this very process.
	- Complexity covers poverty and disguises solutions
	  collapsed:: true
		- Using graphic tools, logic, web technology and knowledge mapping
		- A layered, global analysis of sufficiency integrated into an understandable and meaningful story
	- Issue Mapping, Solution Cartography, Data Visualizations, Infographics
	- Communicating data for easier intellectual digestion  Simplifying the story so real problems and effective solutions become more apparent.
	- Issue Mapping
	  collapsed:: true
		- Its already been written. The essays, articles, diatribes, rants…   See the flow of arguments and issues, pro’s and con’s, genuine alternatives and cosmetic adjustments.  EFA will visually situate the reader in the grand narrative.
	- Data Visualisation & Infographics
	  collapsed:: true
		- Making complex data digestible and memorable, collated into one accessible location that makes greater sense of it.
- # Overview & Outline
	- ## About EFA - Overview
		- Enough For All (EFA) is an exploration into (in)sufficiency, its roots and remedies.
		- It operates around the central question, “Is there enough for all?”
		- EFA attempts to make the grand issue of poverty and scarcity more intellectually digestible and manageable by cohereing disparate data and analyses into a grand narrative.
		- EFA seeks to address this primarily by drawing existing data and analyses from high-quality, authoritative sources. It then presents these predominantly using visual language tools: data visualizations, infographics, argument maps, debate graphs, and more.
		- It also employs a logic pathway approach, taking advantage of modern hypertextual web technologies to start at first principles and raw data in order to explore logical consequences, premeses, assumptions and biases therein.
	- ## Purpose, Aims & Objectives
	  collapsed:: true
		- EFA Goals
			- Collate, invite, curate, narrate, communicate the story of Enough For All.
			- Create online community data and resource portal
		- EFA seeks to make sense of the debate around (in)sufficiency and prosperity.
		- EFA attempts to inform and remind of the general characteristics and features of (in)effective strategies. To achieve this we seek to identify powerful leverage points for health, wealth and peace. We distill debate around models, systems and the principles behind prosperity.
		- We aim to illuminate this complex issue and generate concise insights by being data-driven, community-curated, expert-moderated and graphically focused.
		- The goal is to merge existing disparate data on overwhelming topics into an insightful and coherent message of care, clarity and compassionate critique.
		- EFA seeks to become a collaborative, compassionately critical community. We invite people to get involved in whatever preferred capacity. After all, the story of the world requires the world to (re)write it.
		- Vision, Mission, Goals & Objectives - Outline
		  collapsed:: true
			- Inspiring hope
			- Generating insight
			- Identifying leverage points
			- Conflicting & competing solutions into complementary strategies
			- Overwhelming issues into digestible ideas
			- Attract contributors. Grow a community.
			- Identify trigger points, true barriers.
			- Act as a reminder about what the real problems are, and some ways we might address them.
		- Enough For All intends to knit together the data, results and discoveries made by myriad other researchers into a coherent image.
	- ## [[What EFA is and is NOT]]
	  collapsed:: true
	  Some clarification and definition
		- ### [[Uniqueness and Novelty of EFA]] 
		  Why EFA exists and how it is valuable
	- ## [[Driving Questions of EFA]]
		- Answer the question: "Is there really enough for all?" And, "If so, why do some not have enough?"
		-
	- ## The Story of Enough for All - Overview
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Part 0 - Introduction and Outline]] provides an outline on the What, Why, How, Who etc. It addresses such things as project specifications, rationale, driving questions, theses and hypotheses, tools, project structure and platform, goals and objectives.
		- [[Part 1 - The State of the World]] is dedicated to an overview of wealth, health, happiness, poverty, peace, prosperity - the pulse and pressure of the greater global system. It asks the questions: Where are we at right now? What’s the world like? Where are we heading? Who doesn’t have enough of what?
			- Enough Indicators looks at general and holistic indicators such as the Human Development Index and GINI.
			- Enough Forecasts is where you’ll find predictions and prognostications about global systems.
			- In the Enough Topics sub-section you’ll find data related to specific issues and categories, still at a global scale. This data is interspersed throughout the Story of Enough.
		- Part 2 - The Spiral of Satisfaction begins climbing the staircase of needs and tools from the material and concrete to the important intangible and ethereal.
			- [[Enough Stuff]] starts by looking at the state of generally regarded basic human necessities and materials: food, water, clothing, shelter, land. This section asks the questions: Is there enough of the essentials for all? If no, why not? And could we remedy this? If yes, then why do some not have enough?
			- [[Enough Technology]] begins to deepen the inquiry then by looking at how these raw materials are produced or not, distributed or not, wasted or not. Here we begin to look at underlying mechanisms which manipulate, amplify and extend the basic raw materials.
			- The upward spiral of needs and abstraction continues into [[Enough Ideas]] where we enter the realm of concept and philosophy, looking at the fundamental ideas and premises that technologies, systems and structures embody and embed.
		- Part 3 - Harnessing the Source of All continues the staged ascension from the concrete and begins by bridging from the previous part with the highest and greatest concepts - God, Meaning, Love, Infinity, Limitlessness…(and whatever related terms and concepts you prefer.)
		- Enough X looks at the intangible we all seek, spirituality, the Universe and meaningfulness-making. Re-Source then looks at techniques and practices that may strengthen that connection and refocus our enoughness-seeking in order to tap the Infinite Well.
		- Part 4 - Inspired Resource Utilisation, the learnings discovered can be applied to systems, policies and technologies in an attempt to encourage resilience and robustness at all levels. The Orthodox Solutions looks at current attempts to achieve this and offers critique based on prior learnings. Fresh Alternatives then offers some other strategies and tools to more effectively achieve stated ambitions. It also reminds of the characteristics and features an ideal “Fresh Alternative” might consist of.
	- ## Enough Navigation
	  collapsed:: true
	  Or how to use this site
		-
		- EFA is structured nominally as The Story of Enough, broadly following a framework like Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs, the Chakra model, or Claire Graves’ Spiral Dynamics model. You can approach it in this order, or you can meander as you please. In time, there will be added functionality to adopt different navigation perspectives: Story view, Data view, Map view.
		- Perspectives on the Story
		  collapsed:: true
			- In time it is anticipated to be able to approach the EFA investigation into (in)sufficiency in four complementary modes: Post view, Data view, Story view and Map view.
			- Data view
			  collapsed:: true
				- In Search graphs and charts on sufficiency and the state of the world. View data sets on particular topics of importance. Focus on argument maps and debate graphs on issues of interest. Digest the details of one data visualization in isolation, under the microscope.
			- Map view
				- Geo-map view
					- Visualize the location of your reading and reasoning. Situate the data in the global story of sufficiency. Identify your level of geographical or topical analysis, the depth of causation, the logic paths available. See the interconnections.
				- Knowledge map view
					- Argument-Issue-Debate (AID) view
					- Argument visualizations
					- Issue maps
					- Debate graphs
					-
			- Story view
			  collapsed:: true
				- Navigate the story of enough in a linear or non-linear path. Starting with data visualizations of basic needs, the story winds through terrain of increasing granularity and causation. At each node, take a different fork for the underlying causative mechanism or assumption.
			- Topic view
			  collapsed:: true
				- eg. Food.
				- All data and articles related to Food
		- Or, you could get a better feel by diving straight into some data. You could start with a general, broad data on the current state of the world, or of near-term forecasts. Alternatively, you could get more specific, starting with data on basic necessities or particular topics.
	-
- # Story View
  A textual and linear structure from basic needs up, and back down again.
	- ## Part 0. Enough Overview & Outline
	  The what, why, how and who of the project
		- What
			- EFA may be summarised in the following points:
			  collapsed:: true
				- A community-curated, expert-moderated multi-layered data portal around poverty, peace, happiness, health and wealth.
				- One-stop data shop on broad economics and development indicators and statistics for the general public.
				- A story cohering multiple inadequacies, insufficiences, excesses and wastes, and their potential solutions, into a unifying framework.
				- A centralizing hub for producers of rigorous research and generators of high-quality data so that their contribution can be situated into a bigger picture.
				- A simplification (but not too much!) and distillation of an overwhelming and complex issue.
			- Features & Characteristics: Sense-making, Structure, Crowd-Sourcing & (in)Sufficiency
			  collapsed:: true
				- The overarching purpose and rationale of the Enough For All project is to convert disparate, high-quality data and analysis on the universal theme of scarcity-abundance, into a sensible, bigger picture, coherent narrative of insight, and actionable hope. To facilitate this EFA incorporates certain features and characteristics.
				- Data from reliable, authoritative sources. EFA does not do any original primary data research. Our role is to situate it in context in a bigger narrative and framework, illuminating relationships between data sets, perspectives and arguments.
				- Critical logic pathways. If-then reckoning, assumptions and premises, logical conclusions and implications are all hypertexually constructed via modern web tools. It will allow user-driven (reader and critic) plot pathways to make sense of the story, construct understanding of the issues and posit alternative cause-effect relationships, while maintaining global meaning and connection between data, arguments and layers.
				- First principles. EFA begins from first principles of raw data, without significant benefit or bias from extensive experience in economics, development policy, behavioural sciences or conventional fields. It will use these critical logic steps to move from a data set to multiple possible upstream causes, downstream effects, drill inward to higher resolution analysis and outward to broader contextualisation of the issue. It is expected that some key assumptions, biases and myths inherent in conventional approaches become apparent through this, as may strengths and benefits.
				- Data visualisations. Pictures speaks a thousand words. Why not let the graphics say what they can? Text is used to summarise, critique and ponder, and not to replace data visualisations. Such text should then ideally be represented in yet another visual language format.
				- Visual Language and Knowledge Cartography. Data visualisations are but one form of this. Argument visualisations, debate graphs, issue maps, infographics, augmented text. EFA will favour graphical methods to illuminate the story of enough over lengthy literary pieces. This allows for easier assimilation of big data, wicked problems and complex issues.
				- Crowd-sourced. The story of the world requires the world to write it. Country analysts, issue specialists, discipline disciples  - all required. Data freaks, infographics geeks, and constructive critiques. We need you. UN, NGOs, EDUs, NPOs, VIPs, NFIs… all have a role to play.
				- Community-curated and crafted. While all contributions are welcome not all contributions are equal. Feedback is given, and welcomed, to maintain the standards, message and integrity of the EFA venture while maintaining spirited, constructive debate. Such debate
				- Expert-moderated. We seek to take advantage of the trained and experienced in streamlining and elevating the narrative. However, experts disagree and they also make mistakes.
				- Multi-layered. Reality has multiple layers, different according to different frameworks. There a levels of detail and granularity in an data. EFA’s emphasis is on the Big Picture however it incorporates a sufficient level of granularity to support any prevailing grand pattern. The story structure allows the reader deeper investigation as well as more superficial story skimming and terrain orientation. One could picture a tree-like or pyramidal structure of data nodes which each later reconnect into a complex system, of sub-issues as well as narrative elements.
		- Where?
			- Here And there
			- Hearts, minds, bellies, pockets around the world, now and in the future In the ether and in the famine In the conflict and disaster ravaged zone as well as in the conflicted, turbulent mind
		- Why
			- Purpose, Intentions, Rationale
			  collapsed:: true
			  There are a number of reasons EFA exists as a web-based exploration of enough.
				- Personal curiosity around the driving questions. These are some big questions; perhaps even the biggest of questions. What can be more worthwhile pursuing?
				- Social contribution: Maybe I can help? Charity and activism may not always be enough. And how effective is (my) charity and activism? Are there better ways to channel resources? Better attitudes towards these practices? Are there particularly powerful pressure points?
				- Spiritual practice. I suspect my own fulfillment is linked to filling the bellies, pockets, hearts, minds and souls of as many as possible. I suspect the process may help uncover and illuminate my own resistance to enough: in myself, and for others.
				- Combat hopelessness, powerlessness and apathy. These themselves symbolise a sense of scarcity - a common response in the face of overwhelming, grave, complex issues. A purpose of EFA is to alleviate this by identifying points of powerful action and frameworks of understanding.
				- No one does not lack something. This project may help heal my own personal senses of poverty through understanding and action, and therefore may serve a similar role for others. Much of the modern, industrial malaise is a sense of meaninglessness, despair and depression in an age of unprecedented material wealth. There is a need to inter-relate (in)sufficiency of all types, at all levels, in all dimensions across all sectors to address all forms of poverty, inner and outer.
				- “Market need.” No one single forum (to the best of my knowledge) unites and integrates discussion around sufficiency, at all levels, in all dimensions, in a convenient, digestible manner. There is no place an educated layperson can go for a synopsis of sufficiency made sensible through story, where they can also get more detail and generate further curiosity.
				- Dissatisfaction with many common views on the matter. Many approaches devalue or ignore significant dimensions of reality and being. Because I postulate there can be enough OF everything FOR every thing. And I postulate that we’re going the wrong way about satisfactorily accomplishing that.
				- Why the bloody hell not? Sometimes something just grips you and won’t let go.
			- Overwhelming issues made visible, manageable and hopeful.
			  collapsed:: true
				- Most of us feel overwhelmed by the complexity of the world and hopeless when we look at the scale of suffering and conflict. Many of us choose not to look for this reason.  Enough For All seeks to not only present data in a way that is digestible, but offer hope and mechanisms for alleviating suffering, resolving conflict and addressing poverties and inequalities.
				- Disconnection, incoherence
				- Depressing data into a message of hope and power
			- Personal curiosity: Is there really enough for all? If so, what prevents it? Social contribution: Maybe I can help…? Spiritual fulfillment: I suspect my own fulfillment is linked to filling the bellies, pockets, hearts, minds and souls of as many as possible. Because I postulate there can be enough OF everything FOR every thing. Why the bloody hell not?
			- We remember stories, not facts
		- How
		  collapsed:: true
			- Data Sources
				- EFA draws on a range of high-quality data sources and leading analysis providers across a range of sectors and disciplines. Here are some examples.
			- EFA will attempt to include and appropriately weight and balance all aspects, levels, dimensions of such questions. A full spectrum consideration might cover:
			  collapsed:: true
				- Nested hierarchies eg. individual - community - national/cultural/collective group - global - universal
				- Non-physical reality: interior-exterior, physical-mental, conscious-unconscious, material-intangible prioritisations
				- Me-other balancings: rights-responsibilities, individual-group, structures-agency, freedoms-duties, benefits-obligations
				- Timeframes: Immediate short-term, near-term, mid-term, long-term
				- Layers of discourse: litany, system, worldview, myth (after Inayatullah’s Causal Layered Analysis)
			- Frameworks of Analysis - Overview
			  collapsed:: true
				- Chakra
				- Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs
				- Integral Theory
				- Causal Layered Analysis
				- Spiral Dynamics
			- EFA feels exploration of this topic is best served by largely visual means. This includes:
				- Data visualizations: graphs, charts
				- Frameworks and Maps:
					- knowledge (where in the knowledge domain),
					- debate (where in the argument arena),
					- geospatial (where in the physical world),
					- narrative (where in the story)
				- Argument visualizations and critical logic flow representations
				- Infographics
			- Multi-tiered analysis. Viewing reality as layered, accepting there are many levels of needs. Following examples of existing development models eg. Maslow, Spiral Dynamics, Prout, Chakra system et al. Resources of all kinds considered – physical, mental, psychological, spiritual.
			- Blog posts addressing particular topics aggregating into a book. Embracing helpful insights, useful suggestions and friendly criticism from willing contributors.
		- Who
		  collapsed:: true
			- About the author – Adam Duus
			  collapsed:: true
				- Before we get into the guts, I better introduus myself. My name is Adam Duus. I am a caucasian male, born and raised in affluent middle-class Australia. I have the fortune of a loving, caring family as well as a private school and university education. I’ve lived in safe, secure neighbourhoods. I’ve had opportunities for many varieties of mostly positive experience.
				- As such, I acknowledge that I may be part of a priveliged minority. I have the resources to sit down and write/publish this: time, freedom, tools, internet access… I am not in a daily existential struggle for physical survival though I do grapple with inner demons, as you. Enough For All then not only is to satisfy my curiosity about the questions it poses, it also seeks to investigate how my own wealth, inner and outer, relates to the rest of the world. Can I have enough because others do not? How does my affluence and consumption affect others elsewhere? What can I do, if anything, to assist and alleviate scarcity? Many have offered answers to these questions though I question some of them, and none (to my current knowledge) have integrated all or many of the dimensions of the issue.
				- While I have travelled extensively across the world, and lived in developing countries such as South Africa and Colombia, I do not pretend to really understand the extreme conditions of material scarcity, personal insecurity and social conflict that much of the world experiences as the everyday norm. I am deeply moved by images and stories of those who endure conditions that we all hope to put an end to but I can’t say that I fully appreciate them. I do have my own sense of poverty and scarcity, however, which I believe is something everyone carries in their own form, to varying degrees. For me it appears as not enough time, not enough money, not enough clarity, not enough confidence, not enough foresight etc etc.  Like all, I am travelling my own journey in dealing with this. Undertaking this project is one aspect of that journey. Yet, it is my feeling that there are universal themes in this issue with many forms of expression available to suit the context.
				- As such, the EFA project is thus not a one-way sermon on what the poor, disadvantaged and ill should do – what YOU or THEY should do. No. Rather, it is an investigation into the creation and reinforcement of my own sense of poverty and scarcity, at an individual level and in my world. This world includes you, dear reader, as well as those completely ignorant of or removed from any endeavour like this. In a sense, I can only help me by helping others; and I can only help heal others by simultaneously submitting myself to healing.
				- Less philosophically, I am also developing skills on this journey and appreciate any suggestions on how better to improve my work here.
			- Audience, Targets, Participants & Contributors
			  collapsed:: true
				- Everyone & Everything. Grandiose? Ambitious? Deluded? Perhaps. Perhaps not. Time, and perhaps your perspective, will tell.
				- First and foremost, this is for “me.” No, not you but “me”. EFA wants to take the stance that personal responsibility underpins all collective efforts and socio-economic structures to provide and ensure enough. Any and all exhortations towards others to change must be preceded by a willingness to do the same or at least recognise any double-standards. We all retain the power of decision at a mental level and it is this power we hope to cultivate.
				- EFA is for the “rich” as well as the “poor”. No one has enough of everything at all times. We all lack something. We’re all searching for something. Even doubt, confusion, impatience or boredom are expressions of lack. Everyone is grappling with something.
				- For those who are not struggling day-to-day. For many in the world putting food on the table and securing day-to-day survival are their only foci. And so it should be. This project is for those who have the resources to devote to reading, research, reflection and rejoicing in enough.
				- Me, Adam Duus. I want enough. In fact, I want more than enough…but I don’t want it to necessarily be at the expense of others, the planet or my future. If you resonate with this, then EFA may be for you too.
				- The curious, the skilled, the knowledgeable. EFA needs you, as a community, as a project development team, as quality control, as advocates, as exemplars. This is not one man’s mission but an armada sailing to new horizons. Web developers, data viz gurus, subject matter experts, philanthropists, writer-researchers, friendly critics, graphic designers, the socially conscious, social media networkers…
				- This is for the uninterested and cynical. Perhaps those that are interested and involved in some way can contribute or derive something here that helps us touch the needy in our lives. And we are all needy in some way.
			- Data Sources and Authoritative Organisations
			-
			- I guess EFA is directed more to those who HAVE materially ie “the Haves”, rather than the “have nots”.
			- Ie It is directed to Oz, US, UK, EU etc rather than Africa, Asia, Latin America
			- Its directed to the wealthy powerful minority to share and help others and thus help themselves.
			- Who?
				- Everyone. The “rich” as well as the “poor”. We all lack something. We’re all searching for something.
				- Me, Duusman. I want enough. In fact, I want more than enough…but I also would like others to have enough.
				- You. Enabling enough for all requires all to recognise genuine abundance. Please help. ASSISTANTS’ ASSISTANCE REQUIRED.
		- When
			- Past, present and future
			- Present
				- What does present data say about the current status of sufficiency and abundance?
			- Past
				- Has there always been enough? Is this a perpetual problem, independent of time?
			- Future
				- What do the forecasts say? What do technophiles, apocalyptists, doomsayers, ostriches promise? What do
			- Now And then. Past, present and future (Our memories and future fears are plagued by thoughts of insufficiency: I didn’t do enough/I didn’t have enough etc. How can we heal this? Our plans are attempt to secure enough. How can we plan well?)
		- [[Rationale for EFA]]
		- [[EFA structure, process & platform]]
		  How
		- [[What EFA is and is NOT]]
		  Clarifying potential misconceptions & preconceptions
		- [[Driving Questions of EFA]]
		  What are we trying to understand?
		- [[The premise and thesis of EFA]]
		  What are the philosophical underpinnings?
		- [[Aims & Objectives of EFA]]
		  What is EFA trying to accomplish?
		- [[Possible Actors & Agencies in EFA]]
		  Who is involved?
		- [[Philosophy and Position Statement of EFA]]
		  including hypotheses, intuitions and educated guesses
		-
	- ## Part 1. The Sad State of the Suffering World
		- [[Enough Data]]
		- [[Enough Indicators]]
		- [[Enough Forecasts]]
		- [[Enough Topics]]
		- [[Enough Theory]]
	- ## Part 2. The Spiral of Satisfaction
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Enough Stuff]]
		- [[Enough Technology]]
		- [[Enough Ideas]]
	- ## Part 3. Harnessing the Source of All
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Enough God]]
		- [[re-Sourcing]]
	- ## Part 4. Inspired Resource Utilization
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Critique of Current and Past Solutions]]
		- [[Inspired Resource Utilization]]
		- Some Fresh Alternatives
	- ## Part 5. Enough Conclusions
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Conclusion]]
		- [[Acknowledgements and Inspirations of EFA]]
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{embed [[Acknowledgements and Inspirations of EFA]]}}
		- [[Bibliography, Data and Reports]]
- # Data View
  Search for graphs, charts and infographics on a topic
	- [[Enough For All - data lens]]
- # Issues View
  Data visualizations, commentary and resources collated around specialised topics of enoughness.
	- [[Enough For All - issues lens]]
-