title:: InnerBeginner.info Site Map with Content
alias::
URL::
organisation::
year-commenced::
tags:: website, #myCreation, spirituality

-
-
-
- InnerBeginner.info Site Map with Content
	- Home
	  Slogans / Mottos
	  Beginning the adventure within
	  Beginning the journey within
	  Beginning to venture within
	  Changing minds to change the world
	  Changing minds about the world
	  Seek not to change the world. Seek to change your mind about the world.
	  For those who sense the emptiness without
	  Starting to unlock the treasure within
	  Uncovering the jewel in the heart of the lotus
	  Seeking satisfaction where the outside world has failed
	  Tapping the Source of Peace, Purpose, Wisdom & Joy
	- About Inner Beginner
	  What?
	  •	An interactive online community and resource
	  •	An aid to the novice spiritual aspirant
	  •	A presentation of some lesser-known, alternative yet effective spiritual tools
	  •	An alternative to: 
	  o	unimaginative, sterile “atheists”
	  o	dogmatic, literal fundamentalists
	  o	the new-age spiritual buffet
	  •	An advertisement for forgiveness, compassion and kindness as the simultaneous basis of personal fulfillment and more effective worldly operation.
	  What is it not?
	  •	A prosetylization, mission or attempt at conversion
	  •	A defence of mainstream religion or an attack on atheism
	  •	An exhaustive wikipedia of religion and spirituality
	  •	A forum to debate or argue for truth or metaphysical superiority. Instead, it will offer general comparisons of truth-tools.
	  •	A platform for (a) particular spiritual teacher(s); rather, a channel to promote the importance of genuine, effective spiritual practice with suggested options
	- Why?
	  •	There are people calling out for more substantial and effective spiritual tools than atheism, mainstream religion or fundamentalism. This may help those seekers begin their journey.
	  •	Meditation, compassion and kindness has proven benefits, in many ways and forms.
	  •	We’re all seeking for the same thing and we’re seeking that outside ourselves. The nightly news, amongst other things, shows this strategy is not working.
	  •	The conversation around spirituality has been dumbed down. Alternatives do exist but don’t get a good voice.
	  How?
	  •	An introductory presentation of information on selected spiritual tools.
	  •	A sympathetic online community to support participants in their education, their choice and their journey.
	  •	Enlist support of parent spiritual organisations where possible.
	  •	
	  Who?
	  •	Disenchanted and lost souls
	  •	Inspired individuals
	  •	Compassionate or curious minds
	  •	The devil in each of us
	  •	Seeking financial and moral support from aligned organisations
	  When?
	  •	Healing past hurt
	  •	Calming present fears
	  •	Surrendering future plans and defences
	  •	Forgiveness and kindness happens now – the only time there is
	  •	Launching 2012
	  Where?
	  •	The here and now
	  •	Extending from your mind into the hearts and minds of everyone you come in touch with – physically, mentally or emotionally.
	- Purpose
	  Rationale
	  What IB is not
	  Guiding Principle
	  Points on Included Teachings
	  Site Function Policies
	  Community Creation
	  Not wikipedia
	  About the Founder – Adam Duus
	  Disclaimer – Personal Position
	  Critical Concepts
	  The 80/20 Idea
	  Truth-tools vs Truth claims
	  Truth toolbox vs Spiritual buffet
	  Choosing a spiritual practice
	  “Indeed the real questions one should be asking were: Am I becoming more loving? More peaceful? More forgiving? Have I taken responsibility for my life? Do I understand the folly of judgment? That was how to tell if a path was working for someone.” ~ DOTU. 278.5
	  Cults, Idols and Teachers
	  Some spiritual Tools
	  ACIM
	  Buddhism
	  Zen
	  Tibetan
	  Other
	  Ananda Marga
	  12 Steps
	  Landmark
	  ITP
	  Krishnamurti
	  Urantia
	  Mindfulness Meditation
	  Other
	  Points on Listing
	  Compare & Contrast
	  Charting the Spiritual Journey
	  Wingmakers
	  Wilber
	  William James
	  ACIM
	  Jung
	  Thoreau
	  Huxley – Perennial Philosophy
	  Chopra
	  Resources
	  Organisations
	  Books
	  Stranger in a Strange Land
	  FORCK You
	  Forgiveness
	  Compassion
	  Kindness
	  Bozosattva