title:: InnerBeginner.info Site Map with Content
alias::
URL::
organisation::
year-commenced::
tags:: website, #myCreation, spirituality

-
-
-
- About Inner Beginner
	- [[Features of Spiritual Tools included in Inner Beginner]]
		- Points on Included Teachings
	- [[Purpose of Inner Beginner]] - What?
		- An interactive online community and resource
		- An aid to the novice spiritual aspirant
		- A presentation of some lesser-known, alternative yet effective spiritual tools
		- An alternative to:
		  collapsed:: true
			- unimaginative, sterile “atheists”
			- dogmatic, literal fundamentalists
			- the new-age spiritual buffet
			- An advertisement for forgiveness, compassion and kindness as the simultaneous basis of personal fulfillment and more effective worldly operation.
			  What is it not?
			- A prosetylization, mission or attempt at conversion
			- A defence of mainstream religion or an attack on atheism
			- An exhaustive wikipedia of religion and spirituality
			- A forum to debate or argue for truth or metaphysical superiority. Instead, it will offer general comparisons of truth-tools.
			- A platform for (a) particular spiritual teacher(s); rather, a channel to promote the importance of genuine, effective spiritual practice with suggested options
	- [[Rationale for Inner Beginner]] - Why?
		- There are people calling out for more substantial and effective spiritual tools than atheism, mainstream religion or fundamentalism. This may help those seekers begin their journey.
		- Meditation, compassion and kindness has proven benefits, in many ways and forms.
		- We’re all seeking for the same thing and we’re seeking that outside ourselves. The nightly news, amongst other things, shows this strategy is not working.
		- The conversation around spirituality has been dumbed down. Alternatives do exist but don’t get a good voice.
	- [[People, Practitioners and Providers of Inner Beginner]] - Who?
		- [[Possible Audience and Readers of Inner Beginner]]
			- Disenchanted and lost souls
			- Inspired individuals
			- Compassionate or curious minds
			- The devil in each of us
		- [[About the Founder of Inner Beginner]]
			- Disclaimer – Personal Position
		-
		- Seeking financial and moral support from aligned organisations
	- How?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Community Creation
		- Site Function Policies
		- An introductory presentation of information on selected spiritual tools.
		- A sympathetic online community to support participants in their education, their choice and their journey.
		- Enlist support of parent spiritual organisations where possible.
	- Where?
	  collapsed:: true
		- The here and now
		- Extending from your mind into the hearts and minds of everyone you come in touch with – physically, mentally or emotionally.
	- When?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Healing past hurt
		- Calming present fears
		- Surrendering future plans and defences
		- Forgiveness and kindness happens now – the only time there is
		-
	- What IB is not
		- Not wikipedia
		- Critical, but not judgmental
		- The source of answers
		-
	- Slogans / Mottos
	  collapsed:: true
		- Beginning the adventure within
		- Beginning the journey within
		- Beginning to venture within
		- Changing minds to change the world
		- Changing minds about the world
		- Seek not to change the world. Seek to change your mind about the world.
		- For those who sense the emptiness without
		- Starting to unlock the treasure within
		- Uncovering the jewel in the heart of the lotus
		- Seeking satisfaction where the outside world has failed
		- Tapping the Source of Peace, Purpose, Wisdom & Joy
- Critical Concepts
	- The 80/20 Idea
	- Truth-tools vs Truth claims
	- Truth toolbox vs Spiritual buffet
	- Choosing a spiritual practice
	- “Indeed the real questions one should be asking were: Am I becoming more loving? More peaceful? More forgiving? Have I taken responsibility for my life? Do I understand the folly of judgment? That was how to tell if a path was working for someone.” ~ DOTU. 278.5 #quote
- Some suggested spiritual Tools
	- ACIM
	- Buddhism
		- Zen
		- Tibetan
		- Other
	- Taoism
	- Advaita Vedanta
	- Sufism
	- Tantra
	- Kabbalah
	- neo-Humanism
		- Ananda Marga
	- 12 Steps
	- [[Stoicism]]
	- ITP
	- Krishnamurti
	- Mindfulness Meditation
	- Other
		- Landmark
		- Urantia
	- Points on Listings and Choice of Tools
	- Compare & Contrast
	- Bozosattva
- Resources
	- Organisations
	- Novels
		- [[Stranger in a Strange Land]]
		- [[Siddartha]]
		- [[The Life of Milarepa]]
	- [[Spiritual Texts]]
- FORCK You
	- Forgiveness
	- Compassion
	- Kindness
- Charting the Spiritual Journey
	- Wingmakers
	- Wilber
	- William James
	- ACIM
	- Jung
	- Thoreau
	- Huxley – Perennial Philosophy
	- Chopra
- Other Honorable Mentions
	- Yoga
	- ISKCON
	- Tibetan Buddhism
	- Positive Psychology
	- "Therapy"
- Spiritual Texts
	- [[Bhagavad Gita]]
		- NOT [[Bhagavad-gita As It Is]]
	- [[Tao Te Ching]]
	- [[Dhammapada]]
	- [[A Course In Miracles]]
	- [[Valentinian Gospel of Truth]]
	- [[The Gospel of Thomas]]
	-
- Comments on tools not included here
	- Cults, Idols and Teachers