alias:: AMT, OMG
tags:: #toProcess #toEdit #toWrite, [[My Books]] , [[myCreation]]

- Oh my God!
  Oh my! God?
  O, my God…
- Myth, misconceptions, metaphor, mind & miracles: An introductory manuscript on the path to peace.
-
- AMT as an introduction to all my other writings in the future, which will expand on ideas begun here
-
- The goal is to FORCK You!” – quote from ACIM: “A universal theology is impossible but a universal experience is necessary.”
- The ideas in this book may not be new to you. Their aggregation, and philosophical consequences of this, may be new, and may be challenging.
- Another M-Theory is a simple introductory text on applied metaphysics, offering a model of God-Universe-Space-Time Organization (GUSTO) that allows for peace in a world of suffering and separation.
- Guide to the reader. How to handle this book.
- Rescuing God
  collapsed:: true
	- The image and concept of God needs to be rescued. Not for God’s sake: It is invulnerable and invincible, by definition, and knows not of suffering. Neither for the sake of religion: it should not be the goal, but merely a means. Neither should the idea of God be rescued to counter-attack science: We are all on the same side and it is one attempt to seek Truth, albeit misguided at times. Rather, the image and concept of God needs to be rescued for our own sanity, our own peace of mind.
	- War is raged ‘for’ God. War is raged against ‘God’. Destruction and suffering is claimed to be raged by God. This insane violence, conflict and abuse, both in the external world and inner minds, both overtly obvious and covertly subtle, is based on images and concepts of God which are insane, violent, conflicted and abusive. It gives rise to a metaphysical systems which reinforce and perpetuate the insanity and abuse, yet fail to stand up to progressive critical thinking.
	- It is time to take the blame off God. It is time to stop using God as a convenient excuse for our own subconscious desires for conflict and pain. It is time to time to take responsibility for our own peace and prosperity. To do this we need God for we have taught ourselves that pain and birth-death is the natural way of things, resulting in a world of empty idols and repetitive suffering.
	- We need God to teach us how to love for we have clearly forgotten this.
	- We need God to teach us wisdom in a ‘civilized’ world that has tried and failed at that since it began. And to begin this we need a more loving, wise and kind image and concept of God so that we may avail ourselves of Infinite Wisdom and Perfect Love.
	- Rescuing science
	- Rescuing religion
	- Rescuing thinking
- GOA (Goals/Objectives/Aims)
  collapsed:: true
	- To present a spiritual alternative to orthodox and mainstream views of spirituality and religion and science
	  collapsed:: true
		- Easy to read
		- Cognitively cogent and coherent
		- Opens up new ideas
		- Symphonic in structure, building on clear foundations
	- To encapsulate my views into a book so my family and friends can grasp what I am talking about and thinking about.
	- For the book to be a launching pad for further books
	  ⁃	Certain ideas within the book might be expounded upon in further detail in later tomes
	- To present some ideas which may not be new but are certainly radical, and helpful
	  ⁃	God exists…but did not create the world
	  ⁃	Truth-tools are confused for Truth
	- Some metaphysics which makes sense
	- To present some ideas which may not be new but are certainly radical, and helpful
	- To encapsulate my views into a book so my family and friends can grasp what I am talking about and thinking about.
	- For the book to be a launching pad for further books
- Central Message
- Audience
- Possible partners & contributors
- Motivation for this Book
- notes on Structure
	- Book not meant to be linear yet a passage or section may not be well understood on its own
	- Common messages are present throughout the entire book
	- Concepts & ideas in one part support others elsewhere in the book
	- Same or similar ideas are expressed in more than way to encourage understanding.
	- Same/similar content is listed and accessed through multiple lenses. It appears in multiple locations. (This is one of the powers of Logseq and modular, transclusive writing)
	  collapsed:: true
		- eg.
	- The subway map system of thinking about God.
	- A flowchart with Yes-No question triggers, resulting in various pathways to "God"/god. Can colour code, like a subway system map. Follows a Yes-No type Q&A diagram down to a conclusion. Each pathway is a colour-coded route.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Eg. Good and evil. See notebook for examples 210412?? with each issue ending in something like “It does not really matter. The goal is to FORCK You!” – quote from ACIM: “A universal theology is impossible but a universal experience is necessary.”
	- quotes from different spiritual sources saying the same thing
	  collapsed:: true
		- include literature: Shakespeare, Goethe, Dante, Blake, Rumi
	- bite-size entries of a few paragraphs; these interlink to build bigger network
	- don't try to get exhaustive in listings, explanation, refutations etc
	  collapsed:: true
		- instead focus on over-arching and underlying principles
		- explanations and arguments can be elaborated upon in future works, perhaps using DiaGnosis
	- In a way an explanation of many principles of MetaMechanica
	- Inspired by ACIM but not ACIM
	- Tackle same/similar/recurring points from different starting thoughts. Eg. in “Foundational Concepts” start with the concept and then comment on misconceptions. In “Misconceptions” start with misconception, comment and then return to foundational concept.
	- with each issue ending in something like “It does not really matter. The goal is to FORCK You!” – quote from ACIM: “A universal theology is impossible but a universal experience is necessary.”
	- Summary sections of material throughout the book, OR, each section in a logical progresstion
- Structure as a contrast against scientific materialist
- M-theory
  collapsed:: true
	- What is "M-theory"?
	- History
	- Who?
	- When?
	- Has it been discredited? Transformed?
- People
  collapsed:: true
	- Contemporary
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Richard Dawkins]]
		  collapsed:: true
			- ["It's Sheer Bullsh*t” - Richard Dawkins on Jordan Peterson's Theology - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_eWDiaDOX0E)
		- [[Ken Wilber]]
		- [[Ken Wapnick]]
		- [[HHDL]]
		- [[Leonard Susskind]]
		- [[Michael Shermer]]
		- [[Daniel Dennett]]
		- [[Christopher Hitchens]]
		- [[Deepak Chopra]]
		- [[Huston Smith]]
		- [[William James]]
		- [[Dennis Praeger]]
		- [[Ben Shapiro]]
		- [[Jordan Peterson]]
		- [[Sam Harris]]
		- [[William Lane Craig]]
		- [[John Lennox]]
		- [[Jiddhu Krishnamurti]]
		- [[Stephen C Meyer]]
	- Religious figures
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[PR Sarkar]]
	- Past commentators & thinkers
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Gandhi]]
		- [[C.S. Lewis]]
- Principles & Useful Concepts of AMT
  collapsed:: true
	- God, "God"/god, Gods and gods
	  collapsed:: true
		- Everyone believes in God. But not everyone believes in their definition of “God”.
	- "Defining" God. Characteristics of God.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Define "define"
		- Undefining God
		- Commonly ascribed characteristics of God
		  collapsed:: true
			- Creator (of the world/universe)
			- Judge
		- Universal characteristics of God
	- The ego. The devil.
	  collapsed:: true
		- The ego wants to be God.
		- All powerful. Makes a universe.
		- The world is a place to hide.
		- The world is designed not to work.
		- No Theory of Everything, since it is designed on malfunction, separation, fragmentation
		- Repeated Sleight of hand, combined with amnesia.
		- The world is designed to look like it works, like its a nice place at times... Then the rug is pulled out, the facade is ripped off.
		- The world is designed as a distraction from looking at the source of the problem. Daily life, with its problems and dramas, is designed to distract from the underlying, real problem.
		- The Intelligent (Evil) Designer
		- Yet it is the nature of the ego to separate and fragment. Thus the world of multiplicity.
		- The ego is perfectly logical.
		  collapsed:: true
			- But all logic is built on the premise, the foundational idea.
	- The hidden devil. The oscillating devil.
	- God exists
	- God exists but He did not make the world
	- God is not 'She'. God is not 'He'. God is not even 'It'.
	- You can't fix what is designed to be broken.
	- The ego wants to be God
	- The ego created the universe of form, time & space.
	- The world/universe was created as an escape from guilt, fear & punishment.
	- There is no such thing as faithlessness.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Atheists don't believe in a certain definition of "God". Everyone believes in God. There is no such thing as atheism.
	- Everthing except God is metaphor.
	  collapsed:: true
		- "god" is a metaphor for my worldview ?
	- Everything except God is technology.
	- Technology attempts to mimic the mind.
	- Truth vs Truth-tool
	  collapsed:: true
		- Truth-tools are confused for Truth
	- Paradox
	- Consciousness is not of God.
	  collapsed:: true
		- it has levels, aspects, degrees.... variation
	- Consciousness as shiny toy, as idol
	- Brain and heart as "signal receivers" or "signal detectors" rather than "signal generators"
	- The one real problem – a sense of separation from Source.
	- Projection vs Extension
	- Creation & Miscreation
	- Guilt, fear & punishment
	- Form vs Content
	- Religion as technology. Science as religion. Science as spirituality.
	- Spirituality and the scientific method
	- God is changeless. God is limitless. God is uncharacterizable. God is.
	  collapsed:: true
		- God creates as itself.
	- The world/universe was created as an escape from guilt, fear & punishment.
	- The power of the mind. The Power of Mind.
	- The universe as illusion
	-
	- Circular Thinking
	  collapsed:: true
		- All thinking is circular thinking.
		- We always prove ourselves right.
		- However, some part of the circle may have been ‘conveniently’ forgotten
		- A straight line is an infinitesimal section of a circle, with the rest of the circle shifted to the unconscious
		- All thinking is circular. At our deepest level, we are always proving our premise.
		- At our deepest level, we are always proving our premise.
	- Truth is stranger than fiction.
	  collapsed:: true
		- They both come from the same mind.
	- Sleeping dreams
	  collapsed:: true
		- the royal road to the unconscious
		- designed to delineate against pseudo-reality of waking dreams
		-
- Metaphysics: propositions, postulates, premises and principles; mechanics of the ego
  collapsed:: true
	- [[God, "God", god and gods]]
	- God created You. And God only creates perfectly. God created You perfect, pure, sinless and totally worthy of love. He knows You better than You do. He knows you to be perfect. Therefore, there is nothing really in You that requires forgiveness of God.
	- God’s creations are limitless and pure, perfect love. God created Heaven. The ego created the universe of form, time & space.
	- Bodies are the home/palace of the ego. The ego seeks to make idols out of bodies.
	- God is completely benign.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Total benignity is a very difficult concept to appreciate.
	- The body, and its senses, are designed to attest to the reality of the universe of form and separation.
	- The universe is a closed-loop system
	- The history of the world is the story of the projection of pollution, power, pain and punishment.
	- The universe of form/separation/space-time is designed to reinforce itself as true and real.
	- [[Sin, guilt, fear & punishment]]
	- You cannot add to God.
	- You can only remove the blocks to the awareness of god.
	- Levels
	- Layers (of the egonion)
	- The world is made as a defence and distraction
	- The universe is the ego’s attempt to imitate/replicate Heaven.
	- Level of mind vs level of behaviour/world
	- One ego appearing as many
	- Everyone believes in God. But not everyone believes in their definition of “God”.
	- Worldly problems are the ego’s distraction tactic from the one real problem – a sense of separation from Source. This idea is the very ego itself, so worldly problems are the ego’s survival mechanism.
	- Purpose is everything
	- There is an intelligence which designed and created the Universe, but its not God. No really intelligent designer would make this world. This unIntelligent Designer, however, while being the creator of pattern and fallibility and weakness is the same generator of randomness and pattern being broken. "Seek and do not find." - the metapattern
	- Worldly problems are the ego’s distraction tactic from the one real problem – a sense of separation from Source.
- Some definitions and delineations
  collapsed:: true
	- ‘Spiritual’, ‘spiritual’, ’Self’, ‘self’ and ‘sacred’
	  collapsed:: true
		- Spirit is whole and complete, perfect and lacking nothing, ever changeless, ever loving.
		- ‘Spiritual’ pertains to Spirit.
		- ’spiritual’ reflects one’s idea of one’s self. Everyone is spiritual. Everything is spiritual, because it reflects one’s ideas of oneself.
	-
- FORCK
  collapsed:: true
	- FORCK You!
	- All religions, sects, faiths, teachings have value. All have a role to play.
	  collapsed:: true
		- All religions, sects, faiths, teachings must ultimately be transcended.
	- What is required, however, is our own forgiveness of ourselves and our deep-seated, unconscious guilt. I miscreated something imperfect and
	- Forget-forgive; remember-dismember
	  collapsed:: true
		-
	- FORCK closes the gap between you and your (br)others. This includes species, objects, thought systems and not only people. Furthermore, this includes your other selves. (We all carry multiple voices, multiple role players)
	- An ever increasing Circle of compassion, at a mental level
	  collapsed:: true
		- at a physical, worldly level, no system can include everyone or everything, nor should it
	- Where does your love stop?
	- Life is letting go if the limits to love.
	- Spiritual growth is the expansion of the circle of compassion. More identifying types are included -> Neohumanism / Sarkar circle
	- Expanding the circle of identity
	- Forgiveness - ego’s version versus Holy Spirit’s version
	-
- Points
  collapsed:: true
	- Anthropomorphic principle
	- Spiritual vs spiritual
	  ‘Spiritual’, ‘spiritual’, ’Self’, ‘self’ and ‘sacred’
	- Definitions of God
	- Questioning
	  collapsed:: true
		- ...as genuine inquiry and discovery
		- ...as a delay manoever and divisive mechanism
	- The history of the world is the story of the projection of pollution, pain, punishment, power-source and problem-source onto others.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Victims and victimisers
		-
	- The Bible (New & Old Testaments), and the story of its development, consist of multiple components. SO, THEREFORE, WE MUST SEPARATE THE WHEAT FROM THE CHAFF. DON’T THROW THE BABY OUT WITH THE BATHWATER.
	- Implement the message. Don’t idolise the man. Try to follow the example yourself. Don’t make an example of the failings of others.
	- Worldly problems are the ego’s distraction tactic from the one real problem – a sense of separation from Source. This idea is the very ego itself, so worldly problems are the ego’s survival mechanism.
	- The world of form – the universe of time & space – is like a holographic dream.
	  collapsed:: true
		- An image
		- An illusion
		- A dream
		- An optical delusion
		- A hologram
		- A projection
	- Anything that requires defense is inherently weak.
	- Anger, doubt, jealousy, confusion, hatred, cynicism, boredom, apathy…are all masks of fear. Fear arises from a sense of guilt because a sense of guilt calls for punishment. Therefore surface fears are the tip of the iceberg of the deeper fear of punishment from God.
	- FORCK closes the gap between you and your (br)others. This includes species, objects, thought systems and not only people. Furthermore, this includes your other selves. (We all carry multiple voices, multiple role players)
	- Reincarnation is also an illusion. As our souls.
	- Interconnectedness (is not oneness). Synchronicity is of the ego or the Holy Spirit.
	- Beliefs don’t make Reality or Truth but they do make the appearance of it, and the experience of it.
	- Purpose is everything. Motivation, moreso than mechanism, determines outcome.
	- All thinking is circular. At our deepest level, we are always proving our premise. However, some part of the circle may have been ‘conveniently’ forgotten to absolve ourselves of responsibility.
	- The universe is a closed-loop system. The universe of form/separation/space-time is designed to reinforce itself as true and real.
	- Spiritual development is the shift of all power being seemingly outside and external to oneself, to the recognition that all power is within oneself. That all responsibility lies with me.
	- Spiritual development is the shift from taking zero responsibility for one’s situation to total responsibility for one’s situation.
	- Spiritual growth is the expansion of the circle of compassion. More identifying types are included -> Neohumanism / Sarkar circle
	  collapsed:: true
		- Expanding the circle of identity.
	- The real jihad is the one within, with your own demons.
	- God is completely benign.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Total benignity is a very difficult concept to appreciate.
		  God created You. And God only creates perfectly. God created You perfect, pure, sinless and totally worthy of love. He knows You better than You do. He knows you to be perfect. Therefore, there is nothing really in You that requires forgiveness of God.
	- Otherism
	  collapsed:: true
		- Discrimination by being an ‘other’. Prejudice against an other.
		- Everyone is ‘otherist’
		- We deny it by making special forms of ‘otherism’ and valuing
		- Do you get upset at someone else? Do you get upset at yourself? If so, then you are otherist. Why? Because you are saying “You are the cause of my suffering.”
		- The only possibility to world peace is through inner peace, which comes from recognising and then accepting that you are otherist. Only then can you forgive yourself.
		- Otherism is only resolved through the realisation that there is no other. This realisation is facilitated through the practice of advanced forgiveness and compassion.
	- Speciesism
	  collapsed:: true
		- Discrimination by species. Etymology follows ‘racism’, ‘sexism’, ‘age-ism’
		- Formation of identity through identification with species, and as a species. Etymology follows ‘Buddhism’, ‘Judaism’, ‘Positivism’, ‘Pluralism’
	- From…
	  collapsed:: true
		- The world will be okay when you change what you believe.
		  The world will work when you change what you do.
		- To…
		- The world will be okay when I change what I believe.
	- Misconception template
	  collapsed:: true
		- Misconception
		- Correction
		- Comment on misconception
		- Comment on correction
	- God is completely benign. Total benignity is a very difficult concept to appreciate.
	- God created You. And God only creates perfectly. God created You perfect, pure, sinless and totally worthy of love. He knows You better than You do. He knows you to be perfect. Therefore, there is nothing really in You that requires forgiveness of God.
	- Evolution, Intelligent Design and the Anthropomorphic Principle
	- Mary Magdalene
	- The bloodline of Jesus
	- Abortion, euthanasia, death penalty and genetic engineering
	- Euthanasia
	- Death penalty
	- Stem cells
- Misconceptions & corrections
  collapsed:: true
	- Spirituality is about a change of mind, not changing the world.
	- God did not create religion.
	- Synchronicity, may or may not be, of God
	- Interconnectedness (is not oneness)
	- Sickness is not chosen at a conscious individual level. Anyone’s sickness is everyone’s call to healing themselves.
	- Misconception template
	  collapsed:: true
		- Miss-conception:
		- Correction:
		- Comment on misconception
		- Comment on correction
	- God created bodies
	- God created the world and the universe.
	  collapsed:: true
		- God did not create the world.
		- God did not create space or time.
		- God did not create the Universe, or the multiverse or anything of form
	- Jesus is the Son of God.
	- The Word of God
	  collapsed:: true
		- God's Word is the Bible.
		- God’s Word is the Bible / Koran / Torah /
		- God speaks Arabic, Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Sanskrit...
	- God is mysterious, unknowable.
	- God sends us lessons
	- God is judgmental.
	  collapsed:: true
		- God is judgmental. Judgment Day.
		- The last judgment
	- Consciousness is of God
	- God forgives.
	  collapsed:: true
		- God doesn't forgive because God never condemned.
		- But the image or symbol of God forgiving is a very helpful tool
	- Jesus didn’t know about his imminent crucifixion
	- God wants us to be rich. God wants us to be poor.
	- God wants to test you.
	- God & Jesus wants you to suffer for him.
	- Renouncing the world means asceticism.
	- Non-violence refers to physical actions. (It actually refers to the mind.)
	  collapsed:: true
		- thus much of what is considered peaceful protest is actually very violent
	- God vs Occult
	- Sacred places. Sacred geometry. Sacred texts.
	- On “prayer”. Ie. Prayer is not petitionary. We are always praying.
	- Vegetarianism & Food in spirituality.
	- Pilgrimage.
	- Ritual.
	- Science & Religion. Science vs Religion.
	- God & social justice
	- God & politics, law, economy
	- Jesus & the money lenders. "Do not lend at interest" is metaphor
	- Resurrection vs the Crucifixion
	- Jesus suffered pain on the cross.
	- Body, Mind & Spirit (this is a confusion of levels)
	  collapsed:: true
		- consequences of:
	- Buddha died from contaminated pork
	- Jesus was betrayed by Judas
	- Prayer is petitionary
	- God = The Church
	- Temptation. It is not temptation to fall into wild and wicked ways. It is temptation to consider oneself a victim; temptation to judge; temptation to hold grievances.
	- Heaven is not attained by death. Heaven must be attained by Life.
	- God loves complexity. In fact, he does not. God is simple for God is One, without levels, aspects, components and change.
	- The path to God is simple. But not easy. That’s not because of God. That’s because I/we/the ego have made it so.
	- Death is bad. Death is pain.
	  collapsed:: true
		- (Dying is painful. Physical death is temporary release from pain, the body. Death only temporarily cures pain. Freedom from pain)
		- Reports from the other side
	- God is on “our” side.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Yes, God is on your team but not “against the other team”. God is on “all sides”. God doesn’t share the same goal you think you do. God would have you be without opponents, adversaries, enemies or others, not by eliminating "them" but by helping you see there is no "them", only You/Her as One.
	- Parapsychic powers don’t necessarily indicate spiritual advancement.
	- The ego is bad.
	- Sin is bad, requiring punishment.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Correction: Sin is merely mistake, calling for forgiveness and re-direction. ‘Sin’ is a mistranslation from the Greek ‘X’? which more accurately means ‘to miss the mark’. It is simply an error in direction, a mistake in judgment. In fact, the mistake IS judgment. Just like any archer firing an arrow, a footballer kicking a goal, a singer hitting a key, ‘hitting the mark’ requires practice. Relentless practice, if the level of proficiency is to be high. To hit the mark of peace, love and joy requires continual, patient practice of the untrained mind. Mistakes are inevitable. This is the process of forgiveness – forgiving our erroneous misthoughts until we no longer miss the mark.
	- God is not a He. God is not a She..
	  collapsed:: true
		- Correction: but there is value to calling It an It, and It a ‘He’. Forgiveness opportunity. And because we think we are human, we relate better to an anthropomorphization, a personality. Our current concept of love is body-based so it may be helpful to think of It as Him/Her. However, to insist that It is a Him/Her is to make a mistake. To insist that God be a She, for example, in response to millennia of patriarchal repression, is to make the same mistake as calling It a He.
		- God is not even an ‘It’. When we say ‘It’ we are talking as if ‘It’ is separate from us. Yet God
	- God has nothing to do with evolution
	- Morals are handed down by God or result from the genetic survival imperative.
	  collapsed:: true
		- (They are expressions of metaphysical law. Ie. God won’t punish you for breaking the ten commandments or disavowing Jesus. Suffering is a self-imposed consequence of not understanding metaphysical mechanisms)
	- God did not create religion.
	- God deals out Karma.
	  collapsed:: true
		- (No. The ego dishes out Karma, because it made need of karma)
	- Sacrifice
	- Not everything is energy! God is not energy.
	- Making friends with your ego
	- Spiritual practice eventually means ascetism and going without stuff
	- The more I meditate, the better my spiritual practice
	- We are evolving towards a peaceful, perfect world
- Metamechanics (Practices)
  collapsed:: true
	- From you change to me change
	  collapsed:: true
		- From…
		  collapsed:: true
			- The world will be okay when you change what you believe.
			- The world will work when you change what you do.
		- To…
		  collapsed:: true
			- The world will be okay when I change what I believe.
	- Otherism
	  collapsed:: true
		- Discrimination by being an ‘other’. Prejudice against an other.
		- Everyone is ‘otherist’
		- We deny it by making special forms of ‘otherism’, and quickly rejecting those, removing ourselves from that category, or justifying our establishment of the category.
		- Otherism happens at a mental level
		  collapsed:: true
			- one can assess based on outward group identity and not be discriminatory or prejudiced
			- on the other hand, one can take no external worldly action or word, and yet be very much discriminatory, either
		- Do you get upset at someone else? Do you get upset at yourself? If so, then you are otherist. Why? Because you are saying “You are the cause of my suffering.”
		- The only possibility to world peace is through inner peace, which comes from recognising and then accepting that you are otherist. Only then can you forgive yourself.
		- Otherism is only resolved through the realisation that there is no other. This realisation is facilitated through the practice of advanced forgiveness and compassion.
	- Anger, doubt, jealousy, confusion, hatred, cynicism, boredom, apathy…are all masks of fear. Fear arises from a sense of guilt because a sense of guilt calls for punishment. Therefore surface fears are the tip of the iceberg of the deeper fear of punishment from God. But, critically, it is me who has ascribed the attribute of Punisher to God.
	- Everything is technology. That includes ideas, concepts and thought systems.
	- The history of the world is the story of the projection of pollution, pain, power-source and problem-source onto others. The future of the world is the same unless we learn to give a FORCK.
	- The purpose and role of questioning
	  collapsed:: true
		- Questioning as genuine inquiry and discovery
		- Questioning as a delay manoever and divisive mechanism
	- Spirituality is the practice of one’s idea of oneself. Therefore, everyone is spiritual.
	- All practice – spiritual, religious, scientific, artistic, mundane – is valuable if it promotes forgiveness, compassion and kindness.
	- Faith is the bridge between belief and knowledge.
	- Seek not to change your behaviour. Seek to change your mind.
	- Spiritual development is the process of removing obstacles to including
	- Spiritual development is the shift from taking zero responsibility for one’s situation to total responsibility for one’s situation.
	- Spiritual development is the shift of all power being seemingly outside and external to oneself, to the recognition that all power is within oneself.
	- Your experience is evidence of your beliefs.
	- Beliefs don’t make Reality or Truth but they do make the appearance of it.
	- Meditation & prayer access the Inner Teacher and Higher Power that lies within all of us.
	- Seek not to change your behaviour. Seek to change your mind.
	- The truth doesn’t require defence. However, our Truth “muscle” is very weak and thus requires vigilance against the attacks of the ego.
	- Anything that requires defense is inherently weak.
	- History is the story of the projection of power, pain, pollution.
	- The world confuses Truth with truth-tools.
	- Beliefs don’t make Reality or Truth but they do make the appearance of it.
	- Your experience is evidence of your beliefs.
	- Practices
	  collapsed:: true
		- The truth doesn’t require defence. However, our Truth “muscle” is very weak and thus requires vigilance for the attacks of the ego.
		- Seek not to change your behaviour. Seek to change your mind.
		  collapsed:: true
			- [Therefore, seek not to change the world, but choose to change your mind about the world.](https://acim.org/acim/chapter-21/introduction/en/s/251?wid=search&q=change%20the%20world)
		- All practice – spiritual, religious, scientific, artistic, mundane – is valuable if it promotes FORCK: forgiveness, compassion and kindness.
		- Spiritual progress is measured by an increasing experience of peace, not by time spent meditating or healing modalities mastered, nor by any worldly metric of status.
		-
	- The body
	  collapsed:: true
		- Brain and heart as "signal receivers" or "signal detectors" rather than "signal generators"
- M-words; The Malphabet
	- Myth,
		- All myths (falsehoods) are myths (guiding stories)
	- misconceptions,
	- mindfulness
	- mindlessness
	- meditation
	- mystery
	- miracle
	- magic
		- spell, curse, wand; external instrument, and belief in them
			- belief
		- sleight of hand
			- failure to observe well; willingness to not look
	- Mirth and Merriment
	- metaphor
	- model(s) & modelling
	- [[mental models]]
	- mind
	- mental
	- machines
	- measurement
	- miscreation
	- multiple, many
		- universes
		- perspectives, but not multiple truths
		- pathways to God
	- many lives, multiple lives
	- many worlds interpretation
	- multiple personality disorder
		- the universe as multiple personality disorder
	- mono
		- as in "one", unity
	- monotheism
	- [[Moses and Monotheism]]
	- The Matrix
	- murder
		- of God
		- of brother
	- martyr, martyrdom
	- meaning
	- memory
		- memory of God; Holy Spirit
		-
	- morals
		- morals as mechanics
		- meta-ethics, meta-morals
	- maze
		- the labyrinth of life, world; designed to not escape, to not even know you're in a maze; to
		- maze of mesmerization
	- map
		- (is not the territory). You must walk the path (apply)
		- map reading develops the more you explore the terrain
		- maps are built on projections
		- maps have improved over time
		- maps are the result of people's exploration
		- different maps offer different information
	- mountain metaphor
		- each aspect/facet looks different, different terrain/map requiring different tools, seeing different features
		- as you get higher you see more of the landscape
		- at some point you have to climb; you can't 'walk around the mountain face' looking for an easier way for too long
		- sometimes you have to go down to go further up
	- [[Misanthropic Principle]], miss-Anthropic principle
	- mathematics
		- created to prove itself
		- [[Godel incompleteness theorem]]
		- 2 ways to get more: add a positive, subtract a negative
		- [[The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences]]
		- [Why Physics Is Unreasonably Good at Creating New Math - Nautilus](https://nautil.us/why-physics-is-unreasonably-good-at-creating-new-math-797056/?_sp=b9bf8891-5ab7-4aad-8f76-09499ecbdf46.1727576213198)
		- [[Why Physics is Unreasonably Good at Creating New Math]]
		-
		- maths was created in the moment the universe was; maths comes from the same mind as miscreation; of course maths will support its own reality and power;
	- multiplicity
		- fragmentation, fracture
		- lila
	- misinformation
		- [[Everything is misinformation]]
		- [[John Wheeler]]; everything is information
	- more - the ego's mechanism
	-
	- Myths, the masks of God and projection / anthropomorphization
	- magisteria
		- NOMA. Stephen Gould. Yes, true, but the non-overlapping magisteria are God and ego, not science and religion. Science and religion are very overlapping.
	- method
		- particular reference to scientific method but applies generally
		- you can't observe, apprehend, measure what you method does not and can not accommodate
	- message and messengers
		- the message is always first for the messenger ie. preach through practice, wordlessly
	- militancy and fundamentalism
		- behind/within every fanatic is the seed of doubt
		- "The fanatic is always concealing a secret doubt". George Smiley, [[Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy]] #quote
		- "Fanaticism is always a sign of repressed doubt." #quote [[Carl Jung]]
	- metapattern
		- The pattern of patterns
	- metaproblem
		- the problem with problems
		- the problem of problems
		- the one real problem - a sense of separation from Source
	- [[maya]]
	- meta and Meta
		- there is nothing meta about Meta
		- coopting
	- mind-matter interaction
		- psi
		- placebo
		- [[PEAR Lab]]
	- mirror
		- the world as the mirror of the mind
			- quote from Cloud Atlas
	- monochromatic thinking
		- one shade of grey
	- mantra
	- malady
		- sickness, illness
	- Mary
		- mother of Jesus
		- Magdalene, wife of Jesus
	- MBR, [[microwave background radiation]]
		- problems with the Big Bang
	- Messiah
	- Mayans, Menkaure, Mamallapuram & Megaliths
	- Maitreya
	- Mahasamadhi
	- Mahakalpa, mahayuga
		- grand time cycles
	- McTaggart ; position on time
	- [[Mourning and Melancholia]]
	- Marxism and manifestos
	- manifestation
		- in terms of how 'reality' manifests itself
		- the Secret; new age 'manifesting'
	- Middle Way
	- mindset
- Myth, Metaphor, Symbol & Parable (Describing God, characterizing God, explaining God)
	- The world of form – the universe of time & space – is like a holographic dream.
	  collapsed:: true
		- An image
		- An illusion
		- A dream
		- An optical delusion
		- A hologram
		- A projection
	- The mountain
	- The sun and clouds. The light of the sun is always there. The clouds come (our defences). Night comes (us turning away)
	- Blind men & the elephant
	- River leading to the ocean
	- Tree seedling. Requires protection initially. Grows to withstand greater forces. These forces in turn make it stronger, make it grow.
	- Sleep, dreaming
	- Prodigal Son
	- The lotus
	  collapsed:: true
		- The jewel in the heart of the lotus
	- The hologram
	- The dream
	- The movie / projection
	- The ladder
	- Father-Son; God's Son
	- Everything is metaphor.
	- Words are but symbols of symbols
	  collapsed:: true
		- "...words are but symbols of symbols. ¹⁰They are thus twice removed from reality. ([ACIM, M-21.1:9-10](https://acim.org/acim/manual/what-is-the-role-of-words-in-healing/en/s/836#1:9-10))
	- The signal and the noise
	  collapsed:: true
		- Nate Silver
		- which is which (signal or noise) depends on what you really want. For one, the noise is the ego; for others, the noise is God.
		- learning to discern Signal from Source from the noisy ego
		- distracting, useless, or misleading information (the noise)
	- The veil of forgetfullness
	- The microscope-telescope-periscope-kaleidoscope.
	- music
		- the silence between the notes
		- Beethoven
		- Mozart
		- Eminem
- Proving (& disproving) God, and other paradoxes
  collapsed:: true
	- God cannot be defined and therefore cannot be proven. God can only be experienced.
	- What would proof of God look like?
	- An immovable object vs an infinite force
	  collapsed:: true
		- God is not insane.
	- Similarity of “saviour” stories (disproving)
	  collapsed:: true
		- eg. as presented in Zeitgeist movie. That since there are multiple similar stories of saviour, that the archetype is unreal, and therefore Jesus et al, and resurrection et al are unreal
		- Instead, this proves/shows the regularity of overlaying untrue and inaccurate interpretations on their lives and teachings
	- The borderlands of [[paradox]]
		- the meaninglessness of meaninglessness
		- get more by subtracting more
		- you can't fill a full cup
			- to have an open-mind you must first realise how closed it is
		- what is the 'I' that is doing
		-
- Reports from the non-dual jewel and duel (those who've walked or glimpsed the end of the path)
  collapsed:: true
	- gateless gate
	- [[The Infinite Castle]] - [[Teresa of Avila]]
	- [[The Varieties of Religious Experience]]
	- Holocaust victims at perfect peace
	  collapsed:: true
		- Wapnick
		- Chopra
	- Wilber
	- Rumi
- On Symbols
- Attributes of God; defining "God", "god", "gods"
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Aristotle]]
	- [[St Augustine]]
	- [[Thomas Aquinas]]
	- [[St Anselm]]
	- Need to contrast these with Eastern traditions, indigenous, other faiths
- Strawman arguments
  collapsed:: true
	- defining God in a weak way, or subscribing to a weak definition, in opposition, is a cop out.
- Responses to Common Questions, Claims and Conspiracy
  collapsed:: true
	- Contentious issues and points of debate in metaphysics, theology and philosophy (do not confuse with misconceptions.
	- Must be clear on the difference. I decide which is which, with the help of the Holy Spirit.)
	- If God exists, how can there be evil? If there is a God, how can He let bad things happen?
	- The bloodline of Jesus
- Some comments and Consequences and outcomes, applications of AMT
  collapsed:: true
	- We must resolve science and spirit to be equal. NO!! Science is a METHOD to discover more about spirit and anything else.
	- Religion is a truth-tool. Science is a truth-tool. Neither are the truth but both can help realise the truth.
	- Violent Non-violent resistance; Non-violent resistance vs Armed revolution
	- Genetic engineering
	- Stem cells
	- Death penalty
	- Euthanasia
	- Discussions of ethical issues in AMT. Ramifications and consequences of AMT.
	- Geography. No sacred lands. All sacred lands
	  collapsed:: true
		- The holiest of all the spots on earth is where an ancient hatred has become a present love. #quote #ACIM
	- Abortion
	- Vegetarianism
	- Evolution
	  collapsed:: true
		- Evolution is not random. It is a diversionary tactic.
		- sleight of hand. Keep'em looking in the wrong place.
		- We are heading towards perfection as a species, civilization
		- Evolution has nothing to do with God. It has everything to do with who/what we think we are.
	- Transhumanism
	- Bilocation.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Explanation of Jesus being in Kashmir, Japan...
	- The Holy Grail, the spear tip, the shroud of Turin
	  collapsed:: true
		- idols, misdirections
		- all power in them invested by believers
	- Placebo, nocebo, and variation therein
	- Theories of Everything; variations in diet, medicine etc
	  collapsed:: true
		- You can't ever perfectly "fix" what is designed to be broken.
	- Activism & Change-making
	  collapsed:: true
		-
	- Political and government systems
	  collapsed:: true
		- It is higher-order spiritual development that libertarianism, democracy, (benevolent) dictatorship, socialism and communism become indistinguishable, ultimately one-and-the same.
	- Everything shifts to being a metaphor: The choice is then which metaphor, tied to what purpose?
	  collapsed:: true
		- The real jihad is the one within, with your own demons.
	- Politics: reuniting enlightened church and state
	- Law: blanket
	- Science vs Religion
	  collapsed:: true
		- The religious and spiritual nature of science
		- The scientific and spiritual nature of religion
		- The scientific and religious nature of spirituality
	- Evolution towards a new Earth, a world of justice
- The Bible (New & Old Testaments), and the story of its development, consist of multiple components:
  collapsed:: true
	- Record of some historical facts – terrestrial & extra-terrestrial
	- Spiritual teachings – correctly understood
	- Spiritual teachings – misinterpreted & misquoted
	- Spiritual teachings – metaphor & parable
	- Spiritual teachings – distorted &
	- Guides for practical living in various contexts
	- Innocent mistakes of record & misinterpretation of messages
	- Intentional falsehoods & misleading messages
	- The truth of God & the falsehoods of man
	- Myths, the masks of God and projection / anthropomorphization
	- Translation and interpretation errors
	- Political power play
	- Nature worship/pagan
	- SO, THEREFORE, WE MUST SEPARATE THE WHEAT FROM THE CHAFF.
	- DON’T THROW THE BABY OUT WITH THE BATHWATER.
- Disclosure Statement & Closing comments
  collapsed:: true
	- Transparency
	  I am an ACIM student. My study & practice of ACIM has inspired me to write this book.
	  However…
	- The ideas reflected in this book do not necessarily represent the teachings of ACIM. For that you must read, study and apply The Course yourself.
	- This is not an advertisement for ACIM, per se. It is not an advertisement for any one particular spiritual faith, tradition, denomination, group or whatever.
	  It is, however, an appeal to FORCK. It is an appeal to become more forgiving, more compassionate and more kind. Metaphysics is presented here to facilitate this. Myths and misconceptions are discussed to help remove barriers to FORCKing yourself. This book is an appeal to you to undertake whatever spiritual practice helps you become more FORCK. I don’t care if its ACIM or not. That is just the truth-tool I use. It works for me. Just remember, whatever spiritual path you pursue is not the Truth. It is a way to Truth.
	- I am not a spiritual teacher, of ACIM or anything else. I have the worldly teachers I respect and refer to, according to the guidance of the higher Teacher within (the Teacher that resides within all of us).
	  Disclosure statement: My work inspired by ACIM, or rather, the Presence that the practice of ACIM makes available to me.
	  An acknowledgment and appeal from the author
	  About Adam
	- Comment on moving forward – future books will emerge from this one, expanding on principles presented.
	- Acknowledgements:
	  collapsed:: true
		- Ken Wapnick
		- Gary Renard
		- Neale Donald Walsch
		- Ken Wilber
		- Sohail Inayatullah
	-
- Do I need to write something on [[Science and Non-Duality (org)]] and how it does not actually reflect, promote or espouse non-duality
- [[free will]]
- [[self-referencing]]
	- The ego is something like [[Maurits Cornell Escher]]'s drawings: \
		- it is a labyrinth of itself, not wanting you to escape
		- it is its own Creator ? or wants to portray itself that way, as God
		- the staircase drawing of Escher
			- you keep going up and down stairs, not realizing you're going around in circles
- de-centering
-