alias:: TUC, TUCTUI, The Ultimate Conspiracy. The Ultimate Innovation, The Ultimate Innovation, UCUI, The Ultimate Conspiracy
Question-Problem::
Related-pubs::
related-project::
Tags:: #toWrite, #[[My Books]] #myCreation #Innervation 
title:: Ultimate Conspiracy. Ultimate Innovation.

- #QTS : How does #TUC relate to #[[Ultimate Conspiracy. Ultimate Innovation.]] ?
	- Are they 2 sides of the same coin?
	- Probably, yes.
		- You can't just say "this is problem" without offering an alternative, a solution, a way out. This could be framed in terms of innovation
	- A novel, innovative way to relate to unusual concepts: conspiracy (and subsequent victimhood) to innovation and novel thinking.
- #Innervation #[[Inspired Innovation]]
- [[Big Question]]:
- Premise
- Proposition
- Key Messages
- Audience
- Skeleton outline
	- Part A - The Ultimate Conspiracy
	  The problem. The nature of problems. The meta-problem.
		- the world as a conspiracy by us against ourselves
		- we unconsciously sabotage our own prosperity and health
		- unconscious guilt is the source of the actions against innovation and insight eg. cancer cures, free energy, universal abundance
			- here we meet EFA!
	- Part B - The Ultimate Innovation
	  The nature of solutions. Hierarchy of illusions. Beyond illusions.
		- The only way to achieve MDG’s is through a fundamental shift in consciousness/perception. “Consciousness” here = concepts of “spirituality” or “life/world model”.
		- Current thinking has created the problems. Current thinking won’t fix the problem. Current approaches to fixing problem won’t work.
		- Why/how were the current problems created?
		- What are the current methods of solving our problems?
		  (problems at a large scale, global & regional levels, as well as personal)
		- What is our current thinking? (wrt science & our spiritual heritage). What general trends, patterns and characteristics can be observed?
		- How do our beliefs manifest through trends over time – patterns that change their faces over time but don’t change the underlying belief structure? (ie. Demonstrating our consciousness hasn’t really changed.)
		- What are the examples/cases where consciousness has radically shifted, quite rapidly (on a large-ish scale?)
-
- #[[My Books]] #toWrite #myCreation #Metamechanica
- see also:: #[[Ultimate Conspiracy. Ultimate Innovation.]]
-
-
- Our fear of ignorance holds us in ignorance.
- Intuition, and the need for each person to have their inner guidance; in an age of information overload.
- Examples of where shifts/developments/growths in our spirituality have led to breakthroughs in science in the past?? (spirituality = broader world view, enhanced/expanded life view)
- A treatise on expanded thinking.
	- Multi-tiered, umbrella-like.
	- DeBono (and others) and lateral, creative thinking
	- Current, standard, mainstream innovation thinking strategies
	- Accelerated Learning folk eg. Wim Wenger
	- Ultimately, INSPIRED innovation. Guided by Holy Spirit. Replacing fear with love.
- "The secret of salvation is but this: you do this unto yourself."
  "Choose once again if you would be among the saviours of the world."
  "...and in this Answer lies all answers"
- Archetypal conspiracies to use as metaphorical examples
	- Definite
		- [[the 9-11 theory I subscribe to]] as metaphor
		  collapsed:: true
			- A small but powerful group, at the highest level, masterminded and coordinated
			- made it look like someone else did it - Al Qaeda
			- deliberately created confusion
				- war games on same day
			- distraction ?
				-
			- sacrificed some of itself (Twin Towers inhabitants, plane occupants)
			- covered up the evidence so
				- demolition of building 7 (CIA in NY)
				- early removal of ground zero scrap and rubble
			- self-appoints a panel which will confirm its story
				- NIST report
				- sensory organs, brain signals and mental interpretations seek out confirming "witnesses"
			- US intelligence couldn't detect signals of attack because the cabal didn't want them detected. Whatever signals were reported were dismissed from higher-up.
			- justification for
				- attack (war)
				- extra(ordinary) levels of hyper-surveillance, hypervigilance
				- judgment
				- fear
			- witnesses with contradictory, sensible stories are dismissed or vilified
				- the genuine saints, Jesus, Mary, Rahula, Shems Tabrizi, Socrates
				- unAmerican if you claim it was an inside job
				- 'crazy' if you do not buy the official story
			- emotion
			- denial
				- utter inability to conceive that one's own government could
		- History of conventional Christianity as metaphor
		  collapsed:: true
			- misunderstandings and misinterpretation
				- by the disciples and subsequent authors and clergy
				- of the tiny, mad idea
			-
		- Money system
		  collapsed:: true
			- debt
				- measure of debt
				- debt to God
			- labyrinthine
				- it is very difficult to track back and source where your money was created and by whom
				-
			- money out of thin air; increasingly virtual, less substantial
				- backed by nothing; no gold standard
				- digital banking
			- fractional reserve banking
			- collective psychological agreement of value
				- we agree there is something here: the world, and its dynamics
				- we disagree on the particular value of the specifics
					- but that proves the first point
			- federal reserve and reserve banks
				- not controlled by the government or populous
				- a small but powerful voice
				- unquestioning allegiance
				- authority is arbitrary
			- we all willingly participate
				- if things going well (I'm affluent) then no complaints
			- interest and inflation ?
				- always need more, more, more
				- i have to give back more than I got: guilt?
				- my extra payment (interest) is my punishment
			- bubbles
			- derivatives and futures trading
			- stupefaction by what money affords: materialism, consumption, entertainment
				- distraction from the system and its fundamental flaws and hypocrisies
			- bankruptcy and insolvency
				- death of a company = death of a person ?
				- unconscious though: "I will kill myself to pay off the debt to God. I will give back what I stole from God."
	- Possible
		- Shakespeare
		  collapsed:: true
			- a "positive" conspiracy
			- what was important was to get the word out, in a time when nobility couldn't be seen to be playwrights and artists
			- convenient 'patsy'
		- Ancient History example
		  collapsed:: true
			- Egypt?
				- business
				- ideology
				- nationalism
				- archaeology vs geology vs engineering
				- religion of Egyptology
		- [[Cold Fusion]] ?
- Meta
	- We want conspiracies. We want them to be true. We want them to be false. We want to believe in them whole-heartedly. We want to denounce them as delusional, insane, heretical
-