alias:: bigQ

- What is the world for?
	- What is life for?
	- What is the future / past for?
	- What is time for?
	- What is sickness & poverty for?
- Why do we want to change the world?
	- Why does the world exist?
	- Is it worth changing the world?
	- How best to change the world?
	- What is worth changing?
		- And does this mean I/we shouldn’t bother with anything else?
- What are the grand patterns of change in Life and the Universe?
- What *is* real?
- What evidence suggests that the universe is an illusion?
- How is science like religion? How is religion like science?
	- What is science?
	- What are the various schools of science?
	- What constitutes a "religion"? Characterises it.
	- [[What are the characteristics and features of a religion?]]
	- [[What are the characteristics and features of science?]]
- What definitions "of technology" are there?
	- Not so much a big question but important for my writings.
- What is money and how is it created?
- What is the best way to make decisions?
- Is there enough for all? How might there be enough for everyone, all the time?
- (How) Can the world be at peace?
- What genuine Theories of Everything exist?
- What is important to learn?
- What's the relationship between mind, body & spirit?
- What are the next paradigms? What prevents us from seeing them?
- What evidence is there for ET life and civilization?
- What evidence is there for advanced civilization(s) prior to Mesopotamia, Indus Valley and ancient China?
- What evidence is against the "Out-of-Africa" human evolution hypothesis?
- Where does information come from?
- What is the difference between change, innovation and transformation?
	- What constitutes “change”?
- What is the problem with data-based decisions and evidenced-based practice?
- What is the psychological resistance and effect when truth is found out not to be true?
- What are the reports from sages, yogi, monks, saddhus et al about higher-order religious experience?
- What evidence possibly counters, contradicts or problematizes the theory that mind / consciousness arises out of the brain? : aka "matter out of mind"
	- What evidence supports the "mind out of matter" hypothesis?
-