alias::
tags:: dashboard, #internal 
project:: #EFA
public:: false

- #[[Note to Self]]: consolidation of text: if my goal is to make info more digestible then I have to write, and structure writing, in the same vein.
- "About" pages:
  collapsed:: true
	- [[About EFA]], alias [[EFA Overview & Outline]]
	- [[Enough Overview & Outline]], alias [[Part 0 - Enough Overview & Outline]]
	- [[About EFA - quick version]]
	- {{embed ((6758da35-e704-42f4-a381-d7bceec744c3))}}
	- ### Summary
	  id:: 6758da35-e704-42f4-a381-d7bceec744c3
	  collapsed:: true
	  EFA may be summarised in the following points:
		- A community-curated, expert-moderated data portal around poverty, peace, prosperity, happiness, health and wealth, operating at multiple levels of analysis.
		- One-stop data shop on indicators, statistics, insights and commentary across economics, development, psychology, technology and trends for the general public.
		- A graphical narrative cohering multiple inadequacies, insufficiences, excesses and wastes, and their potential solutions, into a unifying framework.
		- A centralizing hub for producers of rigorous research and generators of high-quality data so that their contribution can be situated into a bigger picture and grander, coherent, explicit narrative.
		- A simplification (but not too much!) and distillation of the overwhelming, complex, universal issue of insufficiency and inadequacy.
- #[[Questions To Self]]:
	- consolidate pages too: dashboard, this page, About etc. How?
	- How does this page differ from dashboard? Should differ?
	- Need internal notes vs external pages
		- eg. project briefs vs About
-
- [[Metamechanic ontology]] and [[metamechanica tag taxonomy]]
- [[EFA - website]]
-
-
-
- [[Project Collaboration Dream Team]]
- [[EFA in a nutshell brief]]
- [[EFA 1-page project brief]]
- [[EFA 5-page project brief]]
- [[EFA 20-page project brief]]
- [[Personal accounts of enoughness]]
-
- ### Existing EFA File-pages to either complete, re-factor, sort or consolidate/delete
-
- DONE [[EFA Overview & Outline]]
- DONE [[Enough Overview & Outline]]
- TODO [#A] ((667bfb1e-457a-4be9-b2f9-e62a08af1246))
- TODO [[Purpose, Aims & Objectives of EFA]]
-
- TODO [[Uniqueness and Novelty of EFA]]
- TODO [[Rationale for EFA]]
-
- TODO [[EFA structure, process & platform]]
- TODO [[Rationale for EFA]]
-
- TODO [[Acknowledgements and Inspirations of EFA]]
- TODO [[Possible Actors & Agencies in EFA]]
- TODO [[Postulates, premises, and positions of EFA]]
- TODO [[Driving Questions of EFA]]
-
-