alias:: xSci
Question-Problem::
Related-pubs::
related-project:: [[amt]] 
Tags:: #toWrite, #[[My Books]]

- we cannot have a #[[theory of everything]] until we look at the very nature of science itself
- a #[[theory of everything]] must include a theory of science #amt
	- it must be able to incorporate itself
	- {{embed ((670886e2-d611-409a-923e-b43cec276a9c))}}
- "science washing" or "scientific revisionism"
	- In the cases of scientific discoveries or hypotheses that are ridiculed and proponents harassed, that are later shown to be accurate, Science retrospectively, consciously or unconsciously, overtly or covertly, always frames itself to be the victor, to be superior, to be effective. "Science ultimately found the answer. It just took some time."
		- Reminds of the quote {{embed ((670894f4-78ff-4496-9dc8-03b0935306c3)) }}
	- The establishment looks back and says, "Yes, but we got there in the end." largely dismissing or trivializing the ridicule they dished out, the anguish they caused, the professions they ruined, and ultimately the delay they caused in the understanding of the universe
		- counter-points:
			- the cases of ridicule where they were right, justified
			- it is exactly not the blind acceptance that gives science its power
			- resources (time, money, manpower, emotion, mental concentration) have to be prioritised. We can't investigate every seeming "crackpot" theory
	- selective memory
	- scientific method vs Science as bigger sociological/societal phenomenon
		- what's the terminology?
		- method is good, in theory, but Scientists are inconsistently scientific
- on how scientists are:
	- religious, clergy
	- contradictory, hypocrits
	- experimentalists (even though theoreticians)
	- blind
	- critical thinkers
	- not critical thinkers
	- visionaries
	- and how we are all scientists
- Here, "X" denotes:
	- X marks the spot: buried treasure
	- X as in unknown, the mathematical variable, the useful tool of algebra
		- could it also represent the unconscious?
	- X as in "incorrect", "wrong"
- X =
	- un
	- anti
	- pseudo
	- a (as in aScientific)
	- macro ?
	- meta ?
- See [[The Science Delusion]] by [[Rupert Sheldrake]]
- Need to define the below terms:
	- [[Psience]]
	- [[Ascience]]
	- [[anti-Science]]
	- [[science]]
	- [[MacroScience]]
	- [[metascience]]
	- [[UnScience]]
	- [[MetaTechnology]]
	- [[pseudo-science]]
- Case studies
	- 9-11
	- Einstein vs nazi nemesis
	- Buddha
		- test for yourself; rub the gold
	- Quantum mechanics: early vs contemporary; Schrodinger vs [[Laurence Krauss]] and [[Sean Carroll]]
	- James Randi
- Psychology of scientists
- Sociology of science
- Science is limited by fear, and has always been limited by fear. Alternative ideas cannot be explored for various fears:
	- a)	Fear of persecution by church – excommunication
	- b)	Fear of economic loss and difficulty, from going counter to the mainstream, accepted dogma (The religion of science)
	- c)	Fear that our world will fall apart. Our model by which we understand the world will be overturned and upset, thereby upsetting my own peace and comfort. “IF I don’t understand it, I can’t control it. And if I can’t control it, I won’t survive.”
	- d)	Fear of being lesser, for not knowing
- What are the various [[Schools of Scientific Thinking]]
- the world is illusion
- scientific models are all metaphors
- models (and thus metaphors) change, expand, abstractionize
-
- The failure to return to foundational assumptions and premises when outcomes are anomalous. (What does this fall under? - unScience? aScience?)
- UC Berkeley image of science
-
- [How Science Works - UC Berkeley](https://undsci.berkeley.edu/lessons/pdfs/complex_flow_handout.pdf)
- [Science checklist - What makes science different from other human endeavours - UC Berkeley](https://undsci.berkeley.edu/lessons/pdfs/science_checklist.pdf)
- Precepts of Science from IB Group 4 syllabi - see 2016 Physics syllabus guide
	- There is an objective reality
	- (only) apprehensible through the five senses and their extensions
- Collective subjectivity vs individual objectivity
-
- Incongruence in orthodox science
	- [[Terence McKenna]]: "Science asks for just one miracle."
	- Comedian skit about "nothing"
- Ridicule, rage, resentment and rip-offs in science
	- "But scientists are only human!"
	- "rip offs" refers to theft and unacknowledgment and mischaracterization
		- [[Rosalind Franklin]]
	- The problem with scientists is that they are human.
-
- Consistency of thinking with practice. (Mis)Alignment of conclusions and operation with premises and assumptions.
  eg. How do the daily lives of scientists and their practice of science agree with the consequences of quantum mechanics?
- "I wouldn't believe it if it were true"
- Analogous to doctors who are unhealthy and unfit; the unhealed healer
- Science shows X but scientists still do Y
- Incongruence
- Serendipity in science
- Dreams and intuitions in scientific discovery