-
see: [[Fresh Alternatives]]

- Header slider
- Acknowledging hierarchies of alternatives
- All ideas are not created equal. But the goal is universal.  Horses for courses. Tools for schools. Some things actually ARE better than others. Beyond dogmatic postmodern relativism
- A hub to begin informing your choices and broadening horizons
- There comes a time when you realise there is much more to the world than you thought.  And then it happens again.
- Acknowledging hierarchies of alternatives
	- All ideas are not created equal. But the goal is universal.
	- Horses for courses. Tools for schools.
	- Some things actually ARE better than others.
	- Beyond dogmatic postmodern relativism
- Link to section below with same title
- Systems, models, theories, concepts and tools which the world needs to hear more about
- An interactive online knowledge community built by participants.
- An information portal for accessing alternative ideas, concepts, models, systems and tools in all fields of human endeavour
- Unmasking pseudo-options. Distilling novel alternatives. Generating genuine difference.
- Mediating the conservative, the counter-culture and the conspiracy. Moderating the crackpot and conman.
- What 1
- A deep, curated wiki for sidelined solutions
- A panorama of possible pathways into the future
- A toolbox for novel thinking methods
- A discussion on what really constitutes an "alternative"
- A forum to help heal orthodox v fringe vs conspiracy thinking pathologies
- An atlas of alternative models and theories
- Alternatives that...
- 4 x blurb sections?
- Empower more
- Explain better
- Enlighten faster
- Do a better job
- Not...
- Not conventional conservative
- Not mainstream alternative.
- Not orthodox apologist
- Not fringe fundamentalist
- Not radical extremist
- Not conspiracy crackpot
- Anything goes
- Content is curated. Community-submitted solutions are reviewed to meet various criteria.
- A hub to begin informing your choices and broadening horizons
- A "how" section
- Comparing and contrasting
- Are existing mainstream alternatives really different?
- Reframing and reinterpreting
- Are ideas self-contradictory or hypocritical? Do they hide conflicting assumptions?
- Expanding and enlarging
- Are there other ideas which are resisted and ridiculed because of their potential power?
- Distilling and discerning
- Some conspiracy theories are cuckoo and disempowering. Some are more rigorous and supported.
- What is a Fresh Alternative?
- Characteristics of a Fresh Alternative
- Personal and social responsibility.
- Explains and includes more. It seems to work better on paper. Warrants examination and experimentation.
- More data. More of society.
- Typically does not receive significant mainstream media airtime at present. If/when it does, it is presented as crackpot, not given fair representation, overwhelmed by better-resourced opposing voices, or legislated against, or rabidly denounced (provide examples of each).
- Reframes, retools and reinterprets evidence and events in order to empower and explain.
- Discourages victimhood. Encourages personal, social and civilizational responsibility. Empowers agency and understanding.
- Access leverage points for authentic change.
- Often disruptive to current power structures
- Works to overcome its own anger and bias
- An example of Fresh Alternatives?
- Past historical examples
- Copernicus
- Relativity
- Geological age of earth
- Hand washing
- Germ theory
- Compare and contrast (Fresh) Alternatives
- Conspiracies
- Accepted
- Shakespeare v Edward De Vere
- 9-11
- Weapons of Mass Destruction. Niger Yellowcake.
- UFO/ET cover-up
- Pre-historical advanced human civilization
- Piri-Reis map Weathering of sphinx Pyramids not tombs Underwater pyramids
- Anti-cold fusion
- Modern finance
- Energy technology suppression
- Shaky ground
- Ancient Aliens
- New World Order
- Moon landings
- Table of comparisons
- A table of not a fresh alternative, and its fresh equivalent
- What is NOT a Fresh Alternative
- Alternative Energy
- FRESH 1
- F
- Fair
- Fun
- Fringe
- R
- Resilient
- Robust
- Responsible
- Resisted
- E
- Efficient
- Equitable
- S
- Sustainable
- Simple
- H
- Healthy
- Healing
- Alternative ...
- F
- Food
- Futures
- Finance
- Fashion
- R
- Religion
- Relationships
- E
- Economics
- Energy
- Education
- Environmentalism
- S
- Science
- Spirituality
- Sport
- Sustainability
- Sexuality
- H
- History
- Health
- & more
- Law
- Governance
- Military
- Manufacturing
- Agriculture
- Politics
- Psychology & Psychotherapy
- Slogans
- There are too many holes in orthodox theory that don’t hold water.
- There are too many holes in orthodox theory that don’t hold water.
- Innovation, transformation & vision comes from the fringe. We need to hang out there.
- Innovation, transformation & vision comes from the fringe. We need to hang out there.
- Fresh Alternatives.
- Because there is more to the world than we think. Truth is stranger than fiction. Ignorance is greater than knowledge.
- Collating ideas that are rejected and ridiculed but cannot be dismissed by critical thinking
- Innovation, transformation and vision come from the fringe. So does the crazy. A balance is needed. An open but critical analysis is warranted.
- Generating a discussion for what constitutes a genuine "alternative"
- Removing the venom, vitriole and vilification from arguments about alternatives.
- In a world of big data and information gluttony, awareness of our options is still limited.
- Expanding the scope of debate and consideration, while moderating and balancing fringe ideas
- Mapping and critiquing alternatives in various domains of endeavour without necessarily dismissing, favouring or integrating any of them.
- Mapping and critiquing alternatives in various domains of endeavour without necessarily dismissing, favouring or integrating any of them.
- Distilling novel genuine alternatives from the mainstream discourse
- When you realise your "choices" are two sides of the same coin. When the explanations don't seem adequate.
- Resources required
- Web developers & designers
- NoSQL database developers
- Subject matter experts
- Philosophically aligned parties
- Text that could be used...
- All ideas are not created equal. But the goal is universal.
- A hierarchy of alternatives
- Horses for courses. Tools for schools.
- Navigating the reasoned middle path between conservative, crackpot, conman and cynic.
- The critical, reasonable and self-reflective path between fringe and "acceptable".
- Mainstream alternatives are often the other side of the same coin. Conspiracy theories vary from compelling evidence and sensible stories containing elements of truth descending all the way down to deliberate deception and disempowering self-victimisation. We cannot blindly accept nor deny. Value and power lie in discernment.
- History is the history of elites and victors, not necessarily of balance. Dominant theory sometimes dismisses disruptive data. Social systems can be legacies of outdated institutions. The same for all fields of inquiry. What gems have been buried, are neglected or go under-utilised because they are terrifying or troublesome to special interests or the collective (un)conscious?
- Conspiracy theories, just like everyone else, combine nuggets of startling truth and noble intentions with smatterings of crazy, wishful thinking and blame projection. They can cultivate victimhood, displace anger and distract from effective living. Ultimately they may not empower any more than what they oppose.
- Conspiracy theories, just like everyone else, combine nuggets of startling truth and noble intentions with smatterings of crazy and wishful thinking, thus cultivating victimhood and fertilising anger. Ultimately they don’t empower any more than what they oppose.
- Yesterday’s revolutionary is today’s leader is tomorrow’s tyrant. “Truth” regularly proves untrue or incomplete. Useful tools can become outdated.
- Yesterday’s revolutionary is today’s leader is tomorrow’s tyrant. “Truth” regularly proves untrue or incomplete. Useful tools can become outdated.
- An abundance of useful alternatives don’t get a voice.
- An abundance of useful alternatives don’t get a voice.
- There's more to the world than we think. There are more options than we each individually can be aware of.
- Is what you are being told all there is available? Are they the only options? Are there better explanations, models and systems?
- To make an informed choice, one must be informed of the distinct choices available.
- An information portal for accessing alternative ideas, concepts, models, systems and tools in all fields of human endeavour.
- A web portal for accessing alternative ideas, concepts, models, systems and tools in all fields of human endeavour.
- Because "out of the box" has become so cliche. Because "revolution" only takes us around in circles.
- Ockham's razor requires a skilled and responsible hand.
- Yesterday’s revolutionary is today’s leader is tomorrow’s tyrant. “Truth” regularly proves untrue or incomplete. Useful tools can become outdated.