title:: Some old notes on Fresh Alternatives

- #old-notes
-
- FRESH Alternatives – Introductory & General Notes 011209
- MDG’s.
  1.	Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
  2.	Achieve universal primary education
  3.	Promote gender equality and empower women
  4.	Reduce child mortality
  5.	Improve maternal health
  6.	Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and other diseases
  7.	Ensure environmental sustainability (energy, water, agriculture)
  8.	Develop a Global Partnership for Development
- Current thinking has created (and sustains) current problems. Current thinking won’t fix the problem. Current approaches to fixing problem won’t work.
- Why/how were the current problems created?
  What are the current methods of solving our problems?
  (problems at a large scale, global & regional levels, as well as personal)
  What is our current thinking? (wrt science & our spiritual heritage). What general trends, patterns and characteristics can be observed?
  How do our beliefs manifest through trends over time – patterns that change their faces over time but don’t change the underlying belief structure? (ie. Demonstrating our consciousness hasn’t really changed.)
  What are the examples/cases where consciousness has radically shifted, quite rapidly (on a large-ish scale?)
- Just like our scientific & spiritual systems, we create an economic system, then (limit)/determine our actions based within this limited framework, limited by the boundaries of this system.
- Perhaps we need to first determine what it is we want to do, what we want to achieve and then create (a) system(s) that allows us to do that. Then, when we change our goals & desires and those goals cannot be achieved with the current system, we need a new, enhanced system that serves our purposes (goals, desires).
- Ahhh... we must recognize that current systems actually DO reflect our desires and DO facilitate our goals. However, these goals and desires are unconscious. We SAY we don’t want poverty and conflict, but deep down we really do... The systems we use are the proof.
- Perhaps knowing that there were civilizations before ours on this planet, and civilizations other than ours now, elsewhere, alters the world view we take, and therefore, the actions we undertake in this life.
- Developing sci-tech-energy policy within a framework of oneness, multi-dimensionality, unity, eternality, wholeness, abundance/sufficiency.
- We live within a constricting circle of science and spirituality which transcribes a sphere of limitation. That bubble is crying out to be burst. As we boraden the circle, the sphere expands, expanding our perception of what is, and what is possible.
- Generally speaking, we work with what we think to be possible, and expand a little on that. Perhaps for our development to contintue we need to think the unthinkable, to attempt the impossible and genuinely ACCEPT the possibility of th eimpossible. This is related to the role of consciousness in science: we are limited by our imagination and acceptance of the real feasibility of our own imagination...because it does not fit in with our model of the world, our own undestanding of the world.
- We start from a limited understanding of the world and Life, which we often aren’t aware of and don’t acknowledge. This determines what we think of as possible, and directs our efforts. Our efforts are limited to hypothesizing and experimenting in the accepted (consciously, openly or unconsciously, collectively) of possibility and scientific “feasibility”. Our fixed ideas of what is, and what is possible, infect us with tunnel vision, and we merely explore the fuzzy fringes of that tunnel.
- Perhaps if we first acknowledge that we have that tunnel vision, not just in our knowing but in the possiblity of what is...and what is possible, then we take off the blinders that constrain us from looking around in wonder.
- “Our righteousness keeps us blind.”
- Science is limited by fear, and has always been limited by fear. Alternative ideas cannot be explored for various fears:
  a)	Fear of persecution by church – excommunication
  b)	Fear of eceonomic loss and difficulty, from going counter to the mainstream, accepted dogma (The religion of science)
  c)	Fear that our world will fall apart. Our model by which we understand the world will be overturned and upset, thereby upsetting my own peace and comfort. “IF I don’t understand it, I can’t control it. And if I can’t control it, I won’t survive.”
  d)	Fear of being lesser, for not knowing
- A thing is made “impossible” purely by our belief that it is so, by what we accept as being possible, and our current understanding. “I don’t understand how it can be possible, therefore it is impossible.”
- Science is limited because our sense of our spirituality is limited. We are limited by our ideas of what is “right”, “possible”, “economically feasible”.
- “Truth is stranger than fiction”
- We need to take the blinkers off which creates our tunnel vision.
- Past lives. Future lives.
  Extra-terrestrial life.
  Previous earthly civilizations – alternative history
  Alternative Energy
  Alternative Medicine
  Biotech
- Two Types/“Levels” of Alternatives
  1.	Known/well-known but little-used, emerging (and within “acceptable” frameworks)
  2.	Unknown, little-known, suppressed, “consipiracy”-style alternative systems (change of form; “more, better, different”, translation, horizontal)
  3.	So-called “Higher” alternatives.  (transformation, transcendence, vertical)
  4.	Non-dual, spirit, inspired guidance. (Change of content. Illusion to Reality. Win-win.
- (This will require refinement.)
  (Looks a bit like CLA iceberg.)
- “Forbidden Archaeology” , Michael Cremo
  “Forbidden Archaeology’s Impact”, Michael Cremo (the politics of alternative history)
  “Journal of Unconventional History”
- The role of “suppressed” information in creating an alternative future.
- Macrohistory still only uses acccepted factual history. It may accept alternative interpretations of the “facts” but does it allow for “extra facts” eg. Civilizations before mesopotamia?
- Sci-tech futures: how do they accept suppressed science? Do any futures models include suppressed science possibilities?
- How is this suppressed infor treated right now by futurists? What does the treatment of this info have in common with treatment of “fringe but known” info.
- We have accepted a portion of historical info – the info we know about – into mainstream mindset. There is another portion (the “suppressed portion”) of info on record somewhere, and/or proposed somewhere.
  1.	What were to happen if this was “accepted”?
  2.	Define “accepted” – socio-culturally, politically, spiritually, economically
  3.	What are the barriers to its “acceptance”?
  4.	What exactly is the (non)accepted info? How accurate and true is this info? How much is hoax/bogus?
  5.	What barriers exist to allowing further examination and research to determine what is true from false?
- These futures people may have already have looked at “knowledge” and its acceptance by society. May help to look at Feminist stuff, education futures..
- Looking into suppressed histories and suppressed historical informaton...wrt macrohistory. Ideas of civilizations before Mesopotamia and human-seeding from elsewhere...will radically change/confirm/deny theories of macrohistory. This added info (the true part) expands our idea of MH. Consequently, it expands and develops our understanding of human change. Itcould potentially kick-start an upward spiralling of greater understanding of ourselves, Life etc.
  Looking into, and eventually (through investigation) coming to a clever understanding of that “other history” changes/confirms/denies our ideas of human nature.
- There is much bullshit and spurious theories our there about alternative history, conspiracy theory, science theory etc. But there always has, and always will be. Its only by proposign the seemingly insane and whacky that the truth has been arrived at. In that process spurious info and incorrect, dodgy theories are proposed...but they must be proposed for the correct one to be decided upon frm that “selection”
- Often, and over history, that range of “selections” has been determined by a small group (eg. Clergy, scientific orthodoxy etc) But real progress has been made by breaking those shackles eg. Galileo, Copernicus, Jesus, Buddha
- But there are barriers to making those theories – the possibly true AND the untrue, spurious, wong – accessible/acceptable to the mindset; barriers to opening the minds of research orthodoxy (and the surrounding supporting political, economic and social machine) to addressing those issues to a greater degree in society, to determine the true from the false.
- What visions we conceive of and imagine as possible in the future/present, and for the future, determine what actions we undertake today. 
  What sci-tech possibilities we can accept as possibilities in the future despite “foreseen barriers” (in this case laws of thermo/physics, energy industry’s vested interests), determine our actions now, and the choices we make now entering the near future.
- If it is conceivable, it exists or can exist eg. Space-time, wormholes. 
  Why? Because the universe is a projection of the [unconscious] mind.
- What constitutes an alternative?
  What makes a FRESH alternative?
- Levels of alternatives
  CLA + NDF
- How do you make a real choice?
  How do you choose a genuine alternative?
- Alternatives look different to different mind-groups, at different levels.