see: [[Inner Beginner]]

-
- For those beginning the journey within.
- An exhaustive wikipedia of religion and spirituality
- Not:
	- A forum to debate or argue for truth or metaphysical superiority. Instead, it will offer general comparisons of truth-tools.
	- A platform for (a) particular spiritual teacher(s); rather,
- Header slider
- Does religion seem outdated, inconsistent, unhelpful or wrong?
- Does atheism seem empty and uninspiring?
- Does the new age seem airy-fairy, ungrounded, fruitless?
- An incomplete offering of selected spiritual practices and pathways to aid those beginning the journey within.
- An introduction to an array of spiritual systems and practices for those unsatisfied with the common, mainstream options.
- Intelligent, rigorous alternatives to traditional and conventional religious approaches.
- Tried and tested maps to help navigate the inner and outer turbulence of the 21st century
- Choose your route and travel the territory.
- Depth and rigour for the novice spiritual seeker
- Inner Beginner copy
- Inner Beginner
- What?
- What? An interactive online community and resource An aid to the novice spiritual aspirant A presentation of some lesser-known, alternative yet effective spiritual tools An alternative to:  unimaginative, sterile “atheists” dogmatic, literal fundamentalists the new-age spiritual buffet An advertisement for forgiveness, compassion and kindness as the simultaneous basis of personal fulfillment and more effective worldly operation.
- What is it not?
- What is it not? A prosetylization, mission or attempt at conversion A defence of mainstream religion or an attack on atheism An exhaustive wikipedia of religion and spirituality A forum to debate or argue for truth or metaphysical superiority. Instead, it will offer general comparisons of truth-tools. A platform for (a) particular spiritual teacher(s); rather, a channel to promote the importance of genuine, effective spiritual practice with suggested options
- Why?
- Why? There are people calling out for more substantial and effective spiritual tools than atheism, mainstream religion or fundamentalism. This may help those seekers begin their journey. Meditation, compassion and kindness has proven benefits, in many ways and forms. We’re all seeking for the same thing and we’re seeking that outside ourselves. The nightly news, amongst other things, shows this strategy is not working. The conversation around spirituality has been dumbed down. Alternatives do exist but don’t get a good voice.
- How?
- How? An introductory presentation of information on selected spiritual tools. A sympathetic online community to support participants in their education, their choice and their journey. Enlist support of parent spiritual organisations where possible.
- Who?
- Who? Seeking financial and moral support from aligned organisations Inspired individuals Lost souls Compassionate minds The devil in each of us
- When?
- When? Healing past hurt Calming present fears Surrendering future plans and defences Forgiveness and kindness happens now – the only time there is Launching 2012
- Where?
- Where? The here and now Extending from your mind into the hearts and minds of everyone you come in touch with – physically, mentally or emotionally.
- Philosophical Position Statement
- The mountain
- The ladder
- The microscope-telescope-periscope-kaleidoscope.
- Promoting ForCK you; not F*CK you.
- Fostering Forgiveness. Cultivating Compassion. Kindling Kindness.
- Presenting existing, robust, undervalued ideas which don't get much airplay.
- A Course in Miracles
- Advaita
- Buddhism
- Secular humanism ?
- Integral Transformative Practice
- Meditation
- Mindfulness
- Neohumanism
- Krishnamurti
- Qabbalah
- Sufism
- Yoga (Inner)
- Tantra
- Ananda Marga
- Perennial Philosophy
- FORCK
- A portal to world teachings for tapping the wisdom within
- Inner peace for world peace.
- Inner guidance through the information overload
- Inner wealth amidst abject poverty and material emptiness
- Foci and Criteria
- Form vs Content.
- Inner work over outer ritual.
- Focus on Here and now, rather than past lives or future rewards.
- Each to their own
- Allowing and supporting others on their own path.
- Free. Freedom.
- The pathways presented don’t demand monetary payment of any kind, “certification”, donation, tithing, surrender of possessions, membership fees etc.  As a result of your practice of the principles of the pathway you choose, you may be inspired to buy books, attend lectures, donate to charity, or pay for specialised instruction. However, it is not a pre-requisite or even necessary.  We all have lessons to learn, knowledge to acquire and gifts to give. However the big costs will not be financial; rather, we will have to give up our attachments, judgments, fears, doubts, defences, resistance and prejudice. This will be the price to pay to peace.
-
- Free as in beer. Free as in no underwear.
- Closing the gap.
- Healing the separation from Peace. Reducing the distance from others.
- The borderlands of paradox
- What it is. What its not.
- What its not
- What its not.
- 1. A prosetylization, mission or attempt at conversion
- A prosetylization, mission or attempt at conversion
- 2. Another religion or new-age guru
- 2. An attack on traditional religion, atheism or anything else.
- A defence of mainstream religion or an attack on atheism
- 3. An exhaustive wikipedia of religion and spirituality
- An exhaustive wikipedia of religion and spirituality
- 4. A forum to debate or argue
- A forum to debate or argue for truth or metaphysical superiority. Instead, it will offer general comparisons of truth-tools.
- 5. A soapbox-platform for (a) spiritual teacher(s)
- A platform for (a) particular spiritual teacher(s); rather,
- What it is
- 1. Information on some selected alternatives for those already dissatisfied.
- 2. A presentation of other possibilities. And/or a reframing of ideas so as to promote FORCK over misguided uses of religion and atheism.
- 3. A cursory outline of philosophies and practices, comparing and contrasting essential, defining points.
- 4. A forum to encourage and explore.
- 5. A channel to promote the importance of genuine, effective spiritual practice
- Philosophical Position Statement
- The mountain
- The ladder
- The microscope-telescope-periscope-kaleidoscope.
- Resources to Re-Source.
- Where is your source of power? From what do you derive happiness? What guides you in your decision making?  Are they sustainable? Readily accessible? Effective? Wise?  Sooner or later we all reach a point where the usual external phenomena cease to lose their ability to satisfy and/or become unavailable. Money, fashion, drugs, sex, food, “power”, approval, bodily pleasure…all become somewhat empty at some point.  Inner Beginner seeks to present some pathways which don’t deny these worldly customs and necessities, but reframe them for helpful, healthy, harmonious ends.
- In a modern age of Science...
- Science has overturned many historical religious claims and promoted questioning and inquiry.
- Science has glimpsed modern analogues to metaphysical phenomena mentioned in ancient spiritual texts
- Science has not offered adequate responses, for many, around fundamental issues such as meaning, purpose, origins, ethics and love.
- So... science-like rigour need, and can, be applied to our inner worlds to explain, fulfill and guide us better.
- Inner Beginner intends to introduce some such ideas and practices.
- In a world replete with religion...
- Religion has
- Religion has
- Religion has
- Inner Beginner intends to introduce ideas and views which may help make sense of traditional religious systems and practices, and rediscover their utility and truth.
- Have you found a spiritual practice that you wish you'd discovered earlier? Or been told about sooner? Or think others would benefit from? Then get involved in Inner Beginner!
- Resources required
- List skills, expertise, resources etc required for establishment and operation
- For the IB site proper
- Charting the spiritual journey
- Wilber
- Arten & Pursah. Gary Renard
- Wingmakers
- Chopra
- Thinkers and philosophers
- Huxley. Perennial philosophy
- Chopra
- Gurdjieff
- Theosophy
-
-
- William James
- Joseph Campbell
- Comment on the New Age
- Osho
- Cohen
- Louise Hay
- Eckhart Tolle
- Wayne Dyer
- Anthony Robbins
- Doreen Virtue
- On religion, faith-belief, and G/g-od(s)
- The 80-20 principle
- On Happiness
-
- An attack on traditional religion, atheism or anything else
     
  A defence of mainstream religion or an attack on atheism