alias::
tags:: #myWriting 
project:: #AMT #[[AMT hyperbook]] 
see-also:: [[Rescuing Science]], [[Rescuing Religion]]

- Obviously God, by definition, does not need rescuing. However I assert that our dominant conceptions of 'God' need rescuing for our own sake. This includes uncovering the concepts of god that go implied and inferred in our systems, cultures and worldviews as well as the explicit conceptions more apparent in our mythologies and religions.
- The image and concept of God needs to be rescued. Not for God’s sake: It is invulnerable and invincible, by definition, and knows not of attack, lack nor suffering. Neither for the sake of religion: it should not be the goal, but merely a means. Neither should the idea of God be rescued to counter-attack science: We are all on the same side and it is one attempt to seek Truth, albeit misguided at times. Rather, the image and concept of God needs to be rescued for our own sanity, our own peace of mind.
- War is raged ‘for’ 'God'. War is raged against ‘God’. Destruction and suffering is claimed to be inflicted by 'God'. This insane violence, conflict and abuse, both in the external world and inner minds, both overtly obvious and covertly subtle, is based on images and concepts of God which are insane, violent, conflicted and incoherent. It gives rise to a metaphysical systems which reinforce and perpetuate the insanity and abuse, yet fail to stand up to progressive critical thinking.
- It is time to take the blame off God. It is time to stop using God as a convenient excuse for our own subconscious desires for conflict and pain. It is time to time to take responsibility for our own peace and prosperity.
- To do this we need God for we have taught ourselves that pain and birth-death is the natural way of things, resulting in a world of empty idols and repetitive suffering.
- We need God to teach us how to love for we have clearly forgotten this.
- We need God to teach us wisdom in a ‘civilized’ world that has tried and failed at that since it began. And to begin this we need a more loving, wise and kind image and concept of God so that we may avail ourselves of Infinite Wisdom and Perfect Love.
- We need to rescue 'God' to
- Rescue from what?
-
- [[Rescuing Science]]
- [[Rescuing religion]]
- [[Everything except God is metaphor]]
- [[Religion as technology]].
- [[Science as religion. Religion as technology. Spirituality as science.]]
-