journal::
authors:: [[Ken Wapnick]] 
year::
URL::
tags:: article, reference
project::
public:: true

-
- Why Is A Course in Miracles Christian?
- One of the more frequently asked questions regarding A Course in Miracles is why, if its message claims to be universal, it comes within a Christian form, with Jesus’ identity as the source of the material explicitly manifest. This has posed problems for many of the Course’s students and would-be students. This group has included not only Jews who grew up midst Christian anti-semitism, but large num- bers of Christians for whom Jesus has become a strong anti-religious symbol. The answer to this question is found in the Course’s descrip- tion of the modus operandi of the Holy Spirit, Who corrects our errors in the forms in which they appear, for forgiveness can only heal in the form in which the unforgiveness was expressed. By joining us in the world of our mistakes, the Holy Spirit gently corrects our illusions and leads us beyond them to the truth.
- To even the most casual observer, the most dominant element throughout 2,000 years of Western history has been Christianity. Our years are numbered from the presumed birth of Jesus, and not a per- son, regardless of his or her religion, has failed to be influenced by Jesus and the religions that took his name. It is also apparent that the history of Christianity has not been very Christian. Nietzsche remarked that “The last Christian died on the cross,” while Chesterton noted that the problem with Christianity is that “it has never been tried.”
- Christianity’s gifts have been two-edged. On the one hand, it pre- served for centuries the memory of Jesus and his gospel of forgive- ness, as well as benefiting mankind with its many cultural and ethical contributions. On the other hand, Christianity has been a religion of sacrifice, guilt, persecution and murder, with Jesus its primary sym- bol—he whose gospel was only love, forgiveness, peace and unity. As the Course states: “Some bitter idols have been made of him who would be only brother to the world” (C-5.5:7). The development of Christianity can be seen in part as the history of a people who, though believing in Jesus and his message, often unwittingly brought tragedy in place of comfort and salvation to the world. Instead of uniting all people under God as one family, it has divided and subdivided this family. Therefore, before we can accept Jesus’ radical message of for- giveness, the errors of the past must be undone. Within this context it can be said that one of the goals of A Course in Miracles is to correct these mistakes of separation that entered into traditional Christian teachings, distorting Jesus’ central message of God’s love for all people, and our need to forgive each other as the means of restoring this love to our awareness.
- Those who begin the Course expecting to find—for better or for worse—the Christianity they had learned and practiced, or the Christianity that seemed to condone bigotry and persecution, will be very much surprised. They will find many of the words they were familiar with—Atonement, salvation, forgiveness of sins, Christ, Son of God, etc.—but with different meanings or connotations. The cruci- fixion remains the central event in Jesus’ life, yet the Course’s inter- pretation is 180° from the traditional teaching that Jesus suffered and died for our sins. The opening sections in chapters 3 and 6 specifi- cally address this issue.
- Jesus repeatedly speaks of himself in the Course, and it suggests that he could help us “yet a little more” if we accept him in our life. However, while Jesus does not demand that we believe in him, he does ask that we forgive him: “I have great need of lilies, for the Son of God has not forgiven me” (T-20.II.4:1). As long as he remains a symbol of division, suffering and sacrifice, our own guilt remains unforgiven and we cannot accept his gift of forgiveness.
- In the Course Jesus states: “All your past except its beauty is gone, and nothing is left but a blessing. I have saved all your kindnesses and every loving thought you ever had. I have purified them of the errors that hid their light, and kept them for you in their own perfect radi- ance” (T-5.IV.8:2-4). We can extend this same principle to the Course’s purification of Christianity’s errors, while at the same time it retains its kindnesses and loving thoughts. In this sense we can see the Course as an extensive commentary on the Sermon on the Mount, perhaps the clearest distillation of what Jesus’ teachings must have been, and whose principles of forgiveness are so perfectly exempli- fied in his own life. The Course helps us understand what these prin- ciples are and why Jesus made them the cornerstone of his gospel.
- Before we can transcend the separatisms of religion and know our oneness in God, the religions of the world must be purified of their errors. A Course in Miracles has been given to our world as one means of such purification. To ignore or re-translate its language and context is to lose sight of this purpose, not to mention to protect the unforgiveness that has been projected onto Christianity. The Course can hardly be considered to be Jesus’ final word but it is his word for today, without which his original message of forgiveness and unity cannot be understood, accepted and lived.