- We stand at the end of time, looking back, reviewing mentally what has already gone by. #space-time #AMT
	- 'This' has already happened. (whatever 'this' is)
	- DVD library of all scripts (following Ken Wapnick's metaphor)
	- Holy Spirit's script is to look at those same ego scripts with Him.
	- Why did [[I-we]] produce the scripts/movies ?
	- We only fight illusions.
		- Why push so hard against what is happening now, my life (path) right now? Why try to change it; why try _so hard_ to change it? That implies there is something wrong with it. That implies it is real. That infers that it wasn't my choice to begin with. Which begs the question: why did I want this? Why did I want this scenario with all its details? There must have been a purpose.
		- Why would you change something if you were happy?
		- 'There is something in this situation that I must escape.' is the underlying thought. Something that I am fearful of.
		- Preference vs must.
	- Rather than fighting illusions, resisting illusions, what can one do?
		- Forgive the illusion.
			- Remember, I am the dreamer of the dream.
			- I have chosen to dream, and chosen this dream, for a purpose: to reinforce sin-guilt-fear dynamic.
			- I can make another choice; that choice being to look at this with [[JHS]]
		- Fighting, and resistance, is part of the illusion too.
- Unleashing the power of the mind
	- ...by returning it to Mind
	- The most powerful thing I can do is to choose to allow my mind to return Mind. Today, this very day, I sense this.
	- In choosing to return to Mind we are [gradually] removing the obstacles to the Presence of Love that we have placed in front of us.
	- Once I recognise that I am living a script-movie designed to prove myself guilty and loathsome, I am in a place to choose once again by returning my mind to JHS to 'watch' the movie.
	- A new script is now a possibility, but from a desire of less guilt reinforcement.
- [[On empowerment]]
	- We say we 'empower people' or 'empower others'. True empowerment is to remind people of their own power. _Not_ 'give' them power. To remind people of their own power, we first remember our own power.
-