- #QTS : What is worth doing? What do I focus my energies on?
	- I ask this after spending a lot of time and energy on #ACIM-TT getting French system set up. I look at that I think I am deluded trying to learn that in Japanese and/or Arabic.
		- last night (in Waterloo hotel) I felt like my energies were wasted, that I was misdirecting them onto useless endeavours, and that I was avoiding my real, more productive, more challenging work.
			- That trying to learn all these languages was a big ego trip and/or a distraction, avoidance maneuver
		- But if i keep it in balance, in perspective, learning French through ACIM-TT can be helpful and productive and enjoyable. Just don't get bogged down, spend too much time on it; don't avoid the study and application components. Do less 'busy' work in Obsidian eg. copy-pasting, making links and making it 'pretty'. Instead do the study, the active modes of writing, listening, speaking.
		- Remember, ACIM-TT is not just about the foreign language; It is also about deepening my knowledge of the theory, and transcribing the english to my records for my own reference works.
	- I'm also getting down wrt my MM work.
		- Not making progress as I believe i should. Things not looking the way I believe they should. All judgments. And judgments are of criteria of my own fashioning.
		- Actually, its not even just about MM work, but my life in general. School is fast approaching. etc. And I didn't achieve what I wanted...or did I?
		- I am invested in outcomes. Remember [[work as a spiritual practice]]. Special relationship with MM work.
		- Don't make MM an idol.
			- First, it won't work, and it won't be good.
			- Secondly, it is counter to and contradictory of the theory i'm trying to practice, and trying to teach, and trying to communicate
			- My goal is not successful books, projects, kudos, acclaim, really. My goal is God, and I must keep my eye on the Prize.
		-