alias:: metamechanica

- #toEdit #old-notes
- Why not use the term 'metamechanics'? In order to distinguish from multiple practitioners of metamechanica. Plus, its sounds more hipster
- [[Pillars, Principles, Levers and Lenses]]
	- [[MacroScience]] & [[MetaTechnology]]
	- [[Futures, Foresight & Time Tools]]
	- [[Visual Knowledge]] & [[Information Geometry]]
	- [[Wicked Problems]] & [[Social Messes]]
	- [[Holistic Health & Wholeistic Wealth]]
- Central, foundational ideas
	- Do these overlap quite a bit with Another M-Theory?
	- [[Everything except God is metaphor]]
	- [[Everything is technology]]
		- What is it for?
	- Abstraction and Expansion
- Inspired by, and drawing heavily from, the fields of
	- [[Non-dual spirituality]] & [[Comparative Religion]]
	- [[Futures Studies]]
	- [[theories of everything]] (the genuine theories)
	- [[History of Science]]
- Abstraction
- Technology as metaphor. Metaphor as technology.
- Where metaphor meets machine. Where physics meets philosophy meets function meets fun.
- If the metaphor is a machine, we need a new mechanics
- [[MetaScience & MacroTechnology]]
  Metaphor, Self-Awareness & the Science of Science
- [[Technology as metaphor. Metaphor as technology]]
- Slogans, Catch-phrases, Orienting points
  collapsed:: true
	- Metamechanic. Concieving and curating projects to invigorate the world. Bring your brilliance.
	- Harnessing Mind and healing minds
	- Maximising the scope and scale of technology
	- Using the greatest tool to make greater tools
	- Inspired projects to invigorate the world. Help me realise them.
	- Where metaphor meets machine  Meta-for. Meta-4
	- Inspired projects to invigorate the world. Help me realise them.
	- MetaMechanics: When you plans for world domination-salvation fail.
	- MetaMechanics: How to change the world, change your mind & change your mind about the world.
	- Fostering Inspired Resource Utilisation
	- Zengineering a better world.
	- Maturing the mechanics of morals.
	- Mechanics of Mind and Morals
	- Material metaphysics
	- Mechanics use tools to fix machines. Metamechanics use tools of mind to upgrade the mechanisms of the world
	- Engineering evocative evolutionary effective ethics
	- The mechanics of morals and ethics
	- Moral mechanics. Ethic engineering.
	- Applied Mechanics of Mind.
	- Moving morals from mandate to mechanics.
	- Engineering effective ethics.
	- Applied Mechanics of Mind.
	- Applying metaphysics to universal challenges
- Meta-mechanics
- Applied metaphysics
- Metaphysics applied to the world
- Metaphysics on a lower level
- Abstract metaphysical concepts brought into the applied world, yet still somewhat general in scope. Open to more specification, specific application. Available to more concrete demonstration, depending on context.
- How to save the world, save yourself, save yourself from the world and save the world from you
- Metaphysics of larger organisations, systems
- Metamechanics is to metaphysics what mechanics is to physics.
- Question: how does mechanics relate to physics??
- - Definitions:
- Physics:
- Mechanics:
- Mechanics (physical):
- Automotive
- Engineering
- Mechanics (symbolic, metaphor):
- Metaphysics:
- Metamechanics:
- Infinihedron
	- Infinite number of sides
	- Infinite size
- Logo/symbol
  collapsed:: true
	- Infinity symbols (fish-eight)
	- Number? 2,3,4,5,6,7 ?
	- Probably 4, shaped as star with 8 loops
	- Each a different colour. Colours of the rainbow?
	- Red/rusty orange, lightish green, sky blue, violet
	- 2-D = flower;
	- 3-D = sphere; helix?
	- 4-D animation:
	- rotation of ‘flower petals’ around centre
	- rotation of petals relative to each other; change order of colours
	- fold over into ball from ‘centre of infinity’
	- ‘Tips of infinity’ join to become new ‘centre of infinity’. Loops change colour according to new combos of colours.
	- expansion of ball
	- (How do we get into helix?)
	- One, single infinity loop can fold in and out as a circle
	- 4-D animated modelling of movement of circle as infinity loop. Shade the locus/volume created.
	- 4 infinity loops in a linear circle. New centres & loops created.
-
- Harnessing Mind and healing minds
  Maximising the scope and scale of technology
  Using the greatest tool to make greater tools
- Inspired projects to invigorate the world. Help me realise them.
- Where metaphor meets machine
- Metaphor. Meta-for. Meta-4
- Universal challenges. Fundamental fulcra
  Metamechanics projects attempt to leverage the points of maximum return for as many global symptoms as possible. What and where are they? How to access and activate them? Metamechanic projects seek the hidden trapdoor and golden key.
- Remind that context is critical. Explore deeper, non-technical & metaphysical aspects and dimensions of science, technology & resource management Focus on process (and product will take care of itself) Argue that motivation (inner content) is more important than form Imbue a belief in possibility…  Inspire creative thought Encourage participation and collaborative creation Advance spiritual practice (in general) as the means for fulfillment as well as the source of inspired, creative, win-win thinking
- Common elements to Metamechanics and the Projects
  collapsed:: true
	- Wicked Problems, Social Messes & Civilizational Knots
	- Applying a suite of tools from the field of Futures Studies & Wicked Problems
	- Deep Futures, Transformative Foresight, Parallel Panoramas
	- Visual Knowledge & Information Graphics (ViKInG)
	- Combining knowledge structures and knowledge apprehension strategies for knowledge discovery, creation, application, retention and reinterpretation.
	- Knowledge Cartography
	- Information Mapping
	- Accordion Writing
	- Visual Language
	- Data Visualization
	- Infographics
	- [[MacroScience & MetaTechnology]]
		- {{embed ((63ad4b9d-0b4e-4419-9acb-5d09fdcc243f))}}
	- Holistic Health and World Well-being
	- Health beyond the individual physical body. Wealth beyond the personal sphere of awareness.
- Some common themes and features uniting them are intended to be: Orient for peace as the goal, as well as the path Promote alternative, controversial, expanded thinking & fresh perspectives.
	- An array of lenses
	  collapsed:: true
		- Kaleidoscope
			- Colours, richness, the full spectrum, changing patterns, dazzling arrays, fractals, chaos
		- Microscope
			- If the devil is in the detail, its not a detail
		- Periscope
			- Over obstacles and boundaries, above limits and around
		- Telescope
			- Far, ahead, distant, destinations, horizons, looming
		- Endoscope
			- Inspecting interiors, identifying inflammation and infection
		- Oscilloscope
			- Cycles, waves, signals, currents
		- Gyroscope
			- Balance. Direction. Orientation. Momentum
		- Stethoscope
			- Rhythm, pulse, flow, health
		- Horoscope
			- Archetypes, deep myths, guiding narratives, universal stories, foresight, parascience
- A bigger concept of science. A higher concept of technology. Metamechanics retools modern icons and leverages enlightened ideas. Tool time.  Science as method rather than knowledge base. The un-science and anti-science of Science. Technology of technology, for better technology, and better use of technology. Expanded ideas.  Prioritizing science as method over knowledge base: the un-science, anti-science and post-science of Science; considering the Technology behind technology, for better technology, and better use of technology.
- Technology gives a modern twist on universal stories and fundamental symbols. The question is, what tale to write? What meaning to choose? How to break the spell? Metamechanic projects emphasise agency and responsibility in navigating our epic adventure.
- Problems that are defined vaguely, in multiple ways, or not even at all. Recalcitrant conditions, recurring issues, repetitive dramas. Are there common causes, overlapping factors and hidden agents? Metamechanic projects assume there are and go investigating.
- Aware of assumptions  Seeking truth  Answering a research question  Following an injunction, procedure Reporting results (After Wilber)  Tools not limited to tangible. Extends to mind tools  Falsifiability ??  Peer-review ?  Not the Religion of Science, nor the science of religion eg. L.Ron Hubbard  Beyond scientific materialism  Beyond “the new science”  Religion as a ladder, an external practice to produce an inner experience  Increasing limitlessness, transcending boundaries (after Sarkar)
- The universe as a programmable computer
- The brain as a neural network of communication & transportation
- Society as a factory,
- The body as pumps, filters, carriers, motors… Civilisation as construction,  The economy as production line, lever, signal, market “forces”. The planet as spaceship, fortress or  Life as elevator, travelator, simulator, laboratory.  A dominant metaphor is machine: digital, biological, mechanical, economical, psychological, social, cultural. This itself is not the problem. The problem in some cases is the manual. In some cases its the design. In other cases its user error.  Machines can be decommissioned, redesigned, reprogrammed and reassembled. Users can be retrained and upskilled. Systems rewired, bootstrapped  Guidelines and instructions can be rewritten and overwritten. These dynamics are not immutable fixtures, laws of nature, firmaments of history, truths of economics or politics.   Metamechanics takes “technology” as a guiding metaphor, as well as guiding mechanisms, to approach problems and their solving. It employs the pure principles and lofty aspirations of science as a tool to resolve conflict and crises. To address the world’s issues, one must “get under the hood”, “look down the microscope” and see the inner workings - the complex cogs and gears, connections and constructions The result? “Machinery” that would force the very redefinition of the word, and a reimagining of the world.  There are inputs and there outputs. Yet the questions are always asked: What is it for? Who is it for? Where and when are the benefits and the biases?
- Technology as metaphor. Metaphor as technology.
- Where metaphor meets machine. Where physics meets philosophy meets function meets fun.
- If the metaphor is a machine, we need a new mechanics
-