see also:: [[Metamechanica]]

-
- Universal Principles / MetaMechanics
  Introductory and General Notes
	- UP’s are those principles that result in win-win.
	- Dominate externals for win-lose.
	  Unite internals for win-win...
	  (Hmmm.... interesting thought.)
	- Determine characteristics of prevailing thought, wrt science and resource policy.
	  Separateness
	  Competition
	  Scarcity
	  Fundamental evil/baseness
	  Absolute right/wrong
	- There are so many “institutes” and “alliances”, “bodies”, “centres”, “organizations”, “associations”... for social justice, and progressive action, that it seems wise to have a centralized guiding force or organizing principle behind it, to co-ordinate and optimize resource.
	- Q:
	  A gentle suggestive, co-ordinating field of influence that links all to all in the best way possible, most efficiently. This gets the appropriate resources to where/who they are needed, at the right time, in right mode/way, most efficiently.
	- This = God! (or the Holy Spirit)
	- Could the guiding/driving principle be God’s will? Is that the best one?
	- What is God’s will? Whatever it is, it is found within. Different for everyone. Freedom to look for it within in the way that each chooses.
	  Yet we have that Freedom now, without realizing it. (Nothing happens to us without our consent.) We only have “unwanted” forms of expression of that freedom because at some level, in some way, we want it. It serves some purpose. Likewise, that Divinity is also expressed as loving defence from attack.
	- Universal Principles:
	  The way to achieve Q (see above).
	  Principle 1 = surrender to God’s will and “loving co-ordinates”.
	- Yet God’s will is expressed through human creativity.
	- The existence of all these separate, disconnected institutes and bodies serves a Higher Purpose for those within them, and outside of them. The improved organization of them may not be in their Highest Good and therefore not in the part of the Divine Blueprint.
	- UP’s are principles with “align” with life, rather than flowing counter to, or “across” the cosmic creative current, thus inefficiently utilizing resources.
	- UP’s require the consideration of ALL dimensions, much moreso than material/physical. Fundamentally needs spiritual considerations ie. Requirement of fulfilling God’s will, karmic responsibilities, Higher Purpose rather than our pure physical/material desires and ego plans.
	- I guess that’s the first (or one of the fundamental) principles:
	  Surrender to the Divine.
	- 1st essay/piece of work on this field:
	  Laying the conceptual basis for the idea/philosophy.
	  Why? 
	  Why should we look for them?
	  Why do I think they exist?
	  Where should we find them?
	  How to “recognize” them vs impostors or traditional or “common sense” principles.
	- Source, aka “God”, is omnipresent, omnipotent, omniscient, omnichronos. Good is everywhere at all times. God’s love, wisdom, strength and beauty are in limitless abundance in all places, at all times, in all endeavours.
	- It is an exercise in 
	  a)	Recognizing the common formless (and/or at least the more general Form) behind diverse, distinct Form (techniques, ideas, practices) to identify an effective technique, idea, pattern...
	  b)	Eliminating the non-common idea, practice
	  c)	Replacing these, and/or adding a UP’s based specific formed practice.
	- Form is/are (the) detail(s). The Formless is the essence. Form is diverse, though equal, expression of the Formless.
	- It is an exercise in distilling/identifying & equating the formless essence behind myriad, seemingly different, diverse form “mechanisms” or principles.
	- We can “cycle up”, “cycle down” or stagnate.
	  Better explained:
	  Universal principles are life affirming, enhancing, enriching, expanding. Employment of these principles encourages the cycle to continue.
	  When “non-universal” principles are mixed in, the degree of stagnation/”regression” depends on the “mixture” ratio.
	- UP’s take us UP!
	  No UP = NUP! (=no)
	- Move from the abstract to the specialized form.
	  Goal is to arrive at specialized forms for resource management in particular fields, based on abstract UP’s.
	- From A,B,C,D,E,F.... (what could these be??), we glean UP’s using the criteria:
	  a)	Commonality and longevity over time
	  b)	Commonality and longevity over space/place
	  c)	Commonality/longevity over discipline/field.
	  d)	Independence of humanity (but not our observation of it. Not independent of consciousness & creation)
	- What is found in one thing/practice/idea but is not represented/expressed in another time/space/arena...does not quality as a UP
	- I guess ehat I am trying to do is “classify” & organize the general “mechanistic” levels of this; to come up with UP’s (=guidelines) to apply to all, which then become more and more specialized into specific practices, methods, techniques... to improve the efficiency of systems, policies, organizations/organisms
	- Art
	  Music
	  Physics, Chemistry, Biology
	  Psychology, Maps of Consciousness, Integral, CLA, Hawkins
	  Military Strategy, Management Strategy, Leadership studies
	  Spiritual traditions and Metaphysics
	  Macrohistory
	  Economics
	- [[MacroEnergetics]] and UP’s might merge into one. They may be the same thing.
	  The UP’s idea will give ME a spiritual extension and flavour.
	  ME approach will give the concrete resource flow and cycling details to UP’s.
	- Technology must incorporate, embody and/or promote universal principles for endeavoursto be successful in the greatest sense/way.
	  (Everything is technology, of a sort)
	  The greater a technology incorporates, embodies, employs, encourages, promotes, fosters, enables...the expression and implementation of Universal Principles...the greater degree of joy and abundance will result. Why? Because UP’s resemble God’s Laws on earth, and joy and abundance are God’s gifts to us – our natural inheritance.