alias:: 
tags:: #[[project brief]] #[[1-page project brief]]
project:: [[EFA]] 
see-also:: [[EFA 5-page project brief]], [[EFA 20-page project brief]], [[EFA in a nutshell brief]], [[EFA pitches, proposals, promotions, project briefs]]

- #### Audience of this document
  collapsed:: true
	- Who am I writing this for?
		- "internal" readers: builders, funders, supporters
		- not for general public
		- family, close friends
	- Who can help me move forward, in the right direction?
		- [[Jeremy Drinnan]]
		- [[Susan Mizrahi]]
		- [[EFA collaboration dream team]]
- ## The Problem(s) being addressed or explored
  collapsed:: true
	- Understanding the universal problem of enough, of insufficiency-inadequacy, of poverty-prosperity, of pain-peace, and their resolution/attainment.
		- in the world
		- in me and my life
	- Simplify the complexity of this problem
		- The glut of data
		- disconnected, disparate, isolated data with contextual limitations
		- the differing views and approaches
		- the multiple levels and layers
		- the interconnectedness and interdependency of elements and factors
		- expertise is specialized and confined
- ## Driving Questions and Sub-Questions of EFA
	- Is there enough for all?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Enough of what? Everything? Some things? Some things at some time only?
		- Has there always been?
		- What are the forecasts for the future?
	- If not, why not?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Law of life? Law of nature? Systemic shortcomings? Personal responsibility? Manufactured malaise? Unconscious desire?
	- If so, why do some parts of the population not have enough, or seem to not have enough, of some things at some time(s)?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Lack of foresight?
		- Beyond locus of control?
	- What does the data say?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Whose data?
		- Who designates the 'experts'?
		- What does the data assume, privilege or exclude?
	- What might we do to help more people have more of what matters?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What does matter, and when?
		- What are minimum requirements? Optimal conditions? Maximum limits of return?
		- Should we even bother?
		  collapsed:: true
			- Does 'helping' actually hinder?
			- Does more people having more/enough actually help me, and help me to have more/enough?
			- Is there a moral imperative? Economic imperative? Or is it enlightened altruism?
	- More elaboration can be found in [[Driving Questions of EFA]]
- ## Purpose, Vision, Goals & Aspirations of EFA
  What do we hope to achieve?
	- To create and operate an engaging and appealing web portal that helps facilitate understanding of the fundamental issue of insufficiency-inadequacy. Through this, to generate insight, encourage empowerment and inspire hope.
	- Offer a centralised hub for producers high-quality data and analysis across multiple sectors of society, aspects of life and layers of reality to situate their work in the Biggest Picture.
	- Reframing 'poverty' and redefining 'growth' to illuminate the problem and suggest solutions.
	  collapsed:: true
		- To illuminate the interconnection and interdependences of poverties, scarcities and insufficiencies such that attempts at addressing them are more effective.
		- EFA asserts that everyone is poor, in some way, at some time. If we continue to follow convention as defining poverty as primarily economic conditions below a certain daily wage, food intake quantity or average GDP level we not only fail to see the interconnections between this very definition and its sources and influences, but fail to address the pandemic of pain around the world. Perhaps inner poverty in materially affluent world not only plays out as dysfunctional relationships (with people as well as substances) but plays out in the materially impoverished world.
	- To try to steer people in the right direction, as I intuit it. This direction being to access their own Teacher within, to drink from The Infinite Well within, and in doing so generate [[inspired decision-making]] and [[inspired resource utilization]], and discover deeper #[[inner peace]] which is the unavoidable pre-condition of world peace.
	- [[EFA X-C Community]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- A vibrant community of compassionate, critical contributors to cover the immense scope of the project and topics.
		- Moderated by 'experts' as well as '[[alter-experts]]'. Expertise may be disputed. Experts can also wrong and blinded.
		- Subject matter experts, regional residents, content as well as service and skills (eg. web, marketing, design)
- ## Rationale for EFA
  collapsed:: true
  Why do this?
	- The universality, scope, scale and gravity of this problem
	  collapsed:: true
		- universality
		  collapsed:: true
			- Everyone is poor, in some way, at some time.
			- This has always been the case.
		- large scope
		  collapsed:: true
			- lots of issues and problems
			- global, worldwide; all agencies and departments
			- exporting problems & pollution into space
		- long time scale of issues and consequences
		  collapsed:: true
			- enduring, perennial problems: suicide, melancholy, hunger, drugs & addictions, heartbreak, slavery, warfare
			- modern dilemmas: nuclear waste, biosphere pollution, genetic line mutations
			- the problem of problems: new solutions are the next problems
			- time itself?
		- intensity
		  collapsed:: true
			- climate change
			- more energetic weapons
			- the trend of increasing extremes
	- No map exists across all topics, aspects and levels. This story has not been laid out before (to the best of my knowledge)
	  collapsed:: true
		- Grand philosophical frameworks exist yet they are not mapped to contemporary issue data or topic debates.
		- Excellent data around (in)sufficiency exists but in any area or topic it is largely isolated from bigger context and certainly the biggest context
		- This library of excellent though disparate data is categorised by disciplinary conventions but not into a schema that is as meaningful to the journey of an individual, group or civilisation.
	- While we may recall data, we are more likely to remember stories. We are less moved by dry, isolated facts than we are by models, meaning and metaphor. We are more likely to move when we have a map.
	- Standard approaches are constrained by orthodoxy. EFA may extend into the fringe a bit more than orthodoxy does.
	- Web tools such as hypertext, data visualization, infographics, argument maps et al can facilitate the goals of the project better than a traditional book, even eBook (though a #hyperbook is envisaged). The issues are immense, (d)evolving, dynamic, complex, chaotic.
- ## Central Message and Guiding Intution
  collapsed:: true
  What is the underlying idea and insight? What guides research?
	- Enough of all, for all, exists more often than we think, perhaps even always, in all ways. In cases where enough material satisfaction is not available, enough peace is still possible.
	- We often manufacture poverty, scarcity and difficulty out of abundance and peace. We could do and decide otherwise. Solutions and alternatives are available if we ask The Teacher within. Poverty in a particular context tends to have an 'upstream' and inner origin.
	- Everyone is poor, in some way, somehow, at some time. Yet everyone has access to The Source of All within, to guide and heal and uplift them.
	- It all starts with 'me', here and now, in some way, usually an attitude, always a decision.
- ## Theses, Hypotheses, Position Statement
  collapsed:: true
  What do we think, guess, intuit?
	- Personally
	  collapsed:: true
		- My doing this project - of investigating poverty 'out' in the world, is one way of addressing poverty within me (various inner fears & doubts, a sense of inadequacy).
		- It is a form of spiritual practice and an opportunity to apply intangible wisdom teachings to a tangible form: to know experientially what I know theoretically.
	- Philosophically
	  collapsed:: true
		- Outer poverty and pain arises from inner lack.
		- A sense of inner lack arises from seeking satisfaction from inadequate sources, from looking in the wrong direction and the wrong way
		- Outer 'wealth' and 'success', on the level of form, often hides inner poverty and pain, but this inner poverty and pain is always inevitably manifested.
		- Prosperity, on the level of form, can be inspired by first tapping the limitless Source within.
		- There exist many ways to tap the the Infinite Well within. These truth-tools can and must vary, according to context: different horses for different courses, swapping horses as the terrain varies and destination changes.
	- Politically
	  collapsed:: true
		- The vast majority of attempts to address poverty - political, economic, religious, academic - suffer from one or more of the following traits:
		  collapsed:: true
			- the problem is 'out there' with the other; a refusal to look within, acknowledge the 'shadow'
			- limited analyses: the problem, and therefore solution, is bounded by worldview, culture, preferred tools, unconscious agenda, hidden biases.
			- confusion of, and lack of clarity around, means (tools) versus ends (goals), form (appearance) versus content (essence), [Truth]([[Truth (capital T)]]) versus truth-tools.
		- EFA won't pretend to be perfect in this sense. It will endeavour, however, to be metacognitive, self-reflective and open to considering its own limitations and biases, dealing with them as/when/how appropriate, declaring them in due course.
	- Technically, pragmatically
	  collapsed:: true
		- Modern web tools present better ways to explore, navigate, digest and understand such a complex topic.
		- A community of contributors is required to enact the vision. The community will encounter internally the same challenges around 'enoughness' that it addresses externally. Participation within, and operation of, the community is a chance for members to learn what they teach.
- ## Mechanisms, Frameworks & Platform of EFA
  How?
	- Web tools & [[hypermedia]]
		- website
	- [[knowledge cartography]]
		-
	- X-C community
	- Hyperbook
	- Underlying, broad knowledge base
		- [[Metamechanic Mycelium]]
	- Broad conceptual frameworks
		- [[Maslow's hierarchy of needs]]
		- [[Neohumanism]]
		- [[Causal Layered Analysis]]
		- [[Spiral Dynamics]]
		- [[AQAL Integral theory]]
- ## Related projects & products
  Comparator, Contrastor and Possible Collaborator Projects
	- [[Our World in Data]]
	- [[Atlas of Sustainable Development Goals]]
	- [[Enough For All in Calgary]]
	- [[Manna Gum (org)]]
	- [[The Global Education Project - Earth]]
	- [[The World Revolution (website)]]
	- [[Data For Now]]
	-
	- ### Example Data Sources and Providers
	-
- ## Uniqueness, Novelty & Differentiation
  What it is and what it is not.
	- see: [[What EFA is and is NOT]]
	- The theses and hypotheses stated earlier are not unique or original. Many wisdom teachings have espoused messages to this effect for millennia.
	- Novelty and uniqueness lie in the following characteristics:
		-
- ## Anticipated Audience
	- ## Use Cases & User Stories
	- Academics
	- NGOs
	- General public
	- Students
	- Special interest groups - econo-political, religious, charity, advocacy, lobbyists
	- Special issue groups eg. water, energy, slavery
- ## Exemplars & Design Mock-ups