alias:: 
tags:: #[[project brief]] #[[1-page project brief]]
project:: [[EFA]] 
see-also:: [[EFA 5-page project brief]], [[EFA 20-page project brief]], [[EFA in a nutshell brief]], [[EFA pitches, proposals, promotions, project briefs]]

- ### Audience of this document
	- Who am I writing this for?
		- "internal" readers: builders, funders, supporters
		- not for general public
		- family, close friends
	- Who can help me move forward, in the right direction?
		- [[Jeremy Drinnan]]
		- [[Susan Mizrahi]]
		- [[EFA collaboration dream team]]
-
- ## The Problem(s) I am trying to address
	- The universal problem of enough, of insufficiency, of poverty, of peace, and their attainment
		- in the world
		- in me and my life
	- The complexity of this problem
	  collapsed:: true
		- The glut of data,
		- disconnected, disparate data
		- the differing views and approaches
		- the multiple levels and layers
		- the interconnectedness and interdependency of elements and factors
	- The scope, scale and gravity of this problem
	  collapsed:: true
		- large scope
			- lots of issues and problems
			- global, worldwide; all agencies and departments
			- exporting problems & pollution into space
		- long time scale of issues and consequences
			- enduring, perennial problems: suicide, melancholy, hunger, drugs & addictions, heartbreak, slavery, warfare
			- modern dilemmas: nuclear waste, biosphere pollution, genetic line mutations
			- the problem of problems: new solutions are the next problems
			- time itself?
		- intensity
			- climate change
			- more energetic weapons
			- the trend of increasing extremes
	- People
- ## Overview & Summary
- ## Driving Questions and Sub-Questions of
	- ### Question 1
		- #### Sub-question 1a
		- #### Sub-question 1b
	- ### Question 2
		- #### Sub-question 2a
		- #### Sub-question 2b
- ## Vision, Goals & Aspirations of
- ## Rationale for
- ## Central Message and Guiding Intution
	- Enough of all, for all, exists more often than we think. In cases where enough material satisfaction is not available, enough peace is still possible.
	- We often manufacture poverty, scarcity and difficulty out of abundance and peace. We could do and decide otherwise. Solutions and alternatives are available if we ask The Teacher within.
	- Everyone is poor, in some way, somehow, at some time. Yet everyone has access to The Source of All within, to guide and heal and uplift them.
	- It all starts with 'me', here, and now.
- ## Purpose of
	- To try to steer people in the right direction, as I intuit it. This direction being to access their own Teacher within, to drink from The Infinite Well within.
	- To illuminate the interconnection and interdependences of poverties, scarcities and insufficiencies such that attempts at addressing them are more effective.
	-
- ## Theses, Hypotheses, Position Statement
	- Personally
		- My doing this project - of investigating poverty 'out' in the world, is one way of addressing poverty within me (various inner fears & doubts, a sense of inadequacy).
		- It is a form of spiritual practice and an opportunity to apply intangible wisdom teachings to a tangible form: to know experientially what I know theoretically.
	- Philosophically
		- Outer poverty and pain arises from inner lack.
		- A sense of inner lack arises from seeking satisfaction from inadequate sources, from looking in the wrong direction and the wrong way
		- Outer 'wealth' and 'success', on the level of form, often hides inner poverty and pain, but this inner poverty and pain is always inevitably manifested.
		- Prosperity, on the level of form, can be inspired by first tapping the limitless Source within.
		- There exist many ways to tap the the Infinite Well within. These truth-tools can and must vary, according to context: different horses for different courses, swapping horses as the terrain varies and destination changes.
	- Politically
		- The vast majority of attempts to address poverty - political, economic, religious, academic - suffer from one or more of the following traits:
			- the problem is 'out there' with the other; a refusal to look within, acknowledge the 'shadow'
			- limited analyses: the problem, and therefore solution, is bounded by worldview, culture, preferred tools, unconscious agenda, hidden biases.
			- confusion of, and lack of clarity around, means (tools) versus ends (goals), form (appearance) versus content (essence), [Truth]([[Truth (capital T)]]) versus truth-tools.
		- EFA won't pretend to be perfect in this sense. It will endeavour, however, to be metacognitive, self-reflective and open to considering its own limitations and biases, dealing with them as/when/how appropriate, declaring them in due course.
	- Technically, pragmatically
		- Modern web tools present better ways to explore, navigate, digest and understand such a complex topic.
- ## Mechanisms & Platform of
- ## Related projects & products
	- ### Similar & sympathetic projects
	- ### Counter and competitor projects
	- ### Potential collaborators
- ## Uniqueness, Novelty & Differentiation
  What it is and what it is not.
	- see: [[What EFA is and is NOT]]
	- The theses and hypotheses stated earlier are not unique or original. Many wisdom teachings have espoused messages to this effect for millennia.
	- Novelty and uniqueness lie in the following characteristics:
		-
- ## Anticipated Audience
	- ## Use Cases & User Stories
	- Academics
	- NGOs
	- General public
	- Students
	- Special interest groups - econo-political, religious, charity, advocacy, lobbyists
	- Special issue groups eg. water, energy, slavery
- ## Exemplars & Design Mock-ups