Part A – “Is there enough”   This section looks at raw data, basic data. For example, it looks at total energy without specifying where that energy is coming from at the moment (ie. Fossil fuels vs renewables vs new energy vs ZPG)   Enough Tools and Technology ie Enough Advanced Stuff This section maybe breaks down “Enough Stuff” into areas, sectors, regions etc. Looks at how the basic stuff is divvied up in time and place.  The means for amplifying production and expanding distribution eg. Money, transport, machines, genetic engineering, The “advanced” version of the above eg “Fashion” vis-a-vis “Clothing” The ways & means of furthering the basic stuff Enough Distribution (= enough movement, enough exchange, enough cycling between area/people/orgs) Enough Production ( = enough generation, enough creation, enough cycling over time) Use water as an example ie. Drought and flooding in same region over time. Water used in industry Enough transport Enough Money/Currency Enough Work, Employment Enough Medicine Enough protection/security/safety (inlcude idea of Aliens) Enough government  Enough Simplicity/Complexity – where does this section go Enough rest  Enough Science Enough Research  Enough Entertainment Enough Play Enough Information Enough Knowledge Enough Intelligence Enough Ideas Enough Faith Enough Time Enough Wisdom Enough Love  Enough Health Health has many aspects. Physical body. Mental. Emotional. Psychological.  Enough God (the pivotal chapter. The link between Part 1 and Part 2. The end of the ascent, the beginning of the descent.)