alias:: mmls, mm-ls

- the knowledge base underlying all mm projects, books, works
- fungus as metaphor
	- underlies the forest
	- essential for life of forest
	- psychedelic, magical, medicinal properties
	- some toxic
	- its own unique kingdom of organisms
-
- contrast with [[Metamechanic Portfolio]]
-
alias:: mm-ecosys

- a network of notes underlying all mm projects
	- notes reused across multiple projects, publications and products
- all projects can draw on notes that are used primarily in other projects
	- format and style them according to project and page needs
- permissions
	- levels of access to notes; both breadth (how many projects) and depth (admin, editor, author, commentator, reader)
- How do the entitites relate? Projects, books, websites, organisations, concepts, themes, messages
	- Understand this: the projects and books explore and expound the central pillars and principles of metamechanica. Thus, I need to define, decide, distinguish some central ideas. These are the pillars of [[Metamechanica]]
	- {{embed [[Projects]]}}
	- {{embed [[My Books]]}}
	- see: [[Metamechanica Atlas]]
- Projects and books do things that can be categorised in terms of the relationships with each other. What are these categories?
	- Explore and investigate
	- Apply
	- Promote, expound, popularise message
	- Facilitate, allow, encourage
- #toWrite
- Purpose & Rationale
- Structure & Process
-
- Welcome. This site serves two purposes: 1. Share ideas for a range of projects aimed at educating, illuminating and innovating certain issues and questions. 2. Appeal for assistance in seeing these projects come to fruition.  This page will provide a general orientation about the projects, Adam, Metamechanics as a suite of principles, and Metamechanic as a business and role. For more information about the projects, see the relevant project pages. For more information about tools, concepts, ideas and themes of Metamechanics, please read Pillars & Principles. For answers that don’t appear here, please see the FAQ or email Adam.