alias:: mmls, mm-ls, mm-ecosys, MMM, mm-mycelium

-
- the knowledge base underlying all MetaMechanic projects, books, works
- What is mycelium?
-
- fungus as metaphor
	- underlies the forest
	- essential for life of forest
	- psychedelic, magical properties
	- medicinal properties
	- some toxic
	- its own unique kingdom of organisms
	- least regarded of the kingdom of life, but fundamentally important
- The world doesn't see the mycelium. It sees above the surface, to what the mycelium feeds.
- contrast with [[Metamechanic Portfolio]]
- a network of notes underlying all mm projects
	- notes reused across multiple projects, publications and products
- all projects can draw on notes that are used primarily in other projects
	- format and style them according to project and page needs
- permissions
	- levels of access to notes; both breadth (how many projects) and depth (admin, editor, author, commentator, reader)
- How do the entitites relate? Projects, books, websites, organisations, concepts, themes, messages
	- Understand this: the projects and books explore and expound the central pillars and principles of metamechanica. Thus, I need to define, decide, distinguish some central ideas. These are the pillars of [[Metamechanica]]
	- {{embed [[Projects]]}}
	- {{embed [[My Books]]}}
	- see: [[Metamechanica Atlas]]
- Projects and books do things that can be categorised in terms of the relationships with each other. What are these categories?
	- Explore and investigate
	- Apply
	- Promote, expound, popularise message
	- Facilitate, allow, encourage
- #toWrite
- Purpose & Rationale
- Structure & Process
-
-
- Mechanism of MM Mycelium
	- neo4j database?
	- how to enter data as readily as Logseq?
	- how to table and template like Notion, Tana, Capacities
	- how to view Knowledge Graph
	-