MY OVERARCHING RESEARCH PHILOSOPHY AND GOALS

My aim is to make the world a better place for all. My aim is to play my part in alleviating suffering, fostering peace, promoting abundance and injecting joy in the world.

•	This I do through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
•	This I do by pursuing my passion.
•	This I do by taking my brothers along with me on this journey.
•	This I do through my personal example. The answer is the way itself. The way is the final answer.
•	This I do through honoring my brother's views, wants and perceived needs.
•	This I do by recognizing and acknowledging my own limitations, ignorance, unconscious assumptions and beliefs.
•	This I do by remembering we are One. We are on the One Team, all striving for the same goal. We just each take a different view of the experience and approach to playing.
•	This I do by leaving guidance to the Holy Spirit as to what information and materials I should use and when. All is realized in Divine Order.
•

Rather than nit-pick holes in everyone's argument, i need to kindly and gently identify shortcomings and suggest ways they can be improved. I need to let go of forcing my agenda down other people's throats. I need to let go of the idea that i am right and only i am right. We are creating and living a shared future. Its not solely about me, but me with my brothers. It is their world and future too. I must remember we are all on the One Team.

I am suggesting alternatives.
I should steer clear of imposing “answers”. A) “Imposing” doesn't create healthy futures and b) “answers” are really merely preferences or opinions.

By thinking I have concrete answers I am giving illusion reality. There can be no concrete answers in a constantly shifting illusory state.
By thinking I have answers I close off to knowledge.
By imposing I close off my brothers reception to my ideas.

There is much information out there, much of which is conflicting.

The role of spirituality in a technological society. The need for it. The benefits of it.

Scientists (& the politicians, historians and sociologists of science) require “spiritualization” ie. A deeper, spiritual aspect to themselves (or at least those people who knowingly distort and suppress science). They need this to overcome the fear that leads to these actions and thus poor science. These personal underdevelopments hold back science, tech & social development. (particularly the evolution of the scientific process, inquiry & knowledge base).

Yet, this development is hindered and retarded by (their) the belief in thing called science. (Catch 22!) To some, “science” and its so-called methods, dictate and determine certain views wrt spirituality eg. There can be no God, evolution vs creationism, reality of life, “selfish” genetics… that reality is purely materialistic, reductionistic.


What do I want to achieve through my empassioned curiosity and learning?

•	Through an acceptance of suppressed technology and information by the wider society (incl. Govt. & corporations) we can alleviate suffering. We can employ the cleaner energy techs, the safter/easier/cheaper health remedies, feed the hungry,shelter the poor etc.

•	An acceptance of suppressed history and info (eg. UFO’s, science of human body) sheds new light on our position within the universe, and our view of ourselves. It questions evolution and postulates the beginnings of a “bigger” origin & our fundamental spiritual nature.

•	An identification of spiritual origins and nature of life can help us to go to the correct source, and find fulfillment there, rather than mismanage resources and each other in an attempt to fulfill perceived needs & addictions in outer/external/misguided sources.

•	With an enhanced spirituality, we can delve into areas of development previously unentered. We can manage resources in a way to promote equitable and fair developjent for all, through provision of basic needs, people can channel their creativity into “advancement” + transcendence, self-actualization.

Neglect of the fundamental spiritual essence of Life in any endeavour is a recipe for dysfunction and dissatisfaction.  (Adam Duus, 1/7/05)

It is our inbuilt nature to seek love and to love, to seek freedom and give freedom, to seek peace and share peace.
